Congress-NC announce alliance for Jammu and Kashmir Lok Sabha polls, to have 'friendly contest' in Anantnag, Baramulla and Ladakh| Jammu: Sealing an alliance after days of hectic parleys, the Congress and National Conference on Wednesday announced an alliance in Jammu and Kashmir for the Lok Sabha polls, while agreeing on a "friendly contest" on the three constituencies of the state. In a joint press conference, Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad and National Conference chief Farooq Abdullah said that while the Congress will contest on the Jammu and Udhampur seats, the National Conference will fight from Srinagar. There will be a "friendly contest" between the two parties on the Baramulla, Anantnag and Ladakh seats, Abdullah said. "I will contest from the Srinagar seat," he told the press conference. "We had a give-and-take and nobody should be under illusion that one party lost or the other won during the agreement." State Congress chief Gulam Ahmed Mir and AICC general-secretary Ambika Soni were also present at the press conference. The state sends six Lok Sabha MPs.  "Friendly contest means that we will not go hard against each other and at the same time will make a joint efforts to defeat the opponents. Whether they (National Conference) win or we, it will make no difference because the (seats) will add to the national kitty," Azad said. Had the two parties entered the fray separately in Jammu, he said, it would have benefited the BJP. "And in Kashmir, if we fought separately, it is difficult to transfer votes." He said, "We have some MLAs in Anantnag and Baramulla and (by friendly contest) we will be able to maintain our turf." The alliance has been finalised in national interest and will strengthen the secular forces in J&K as the state faces threat from Pakistan, Azad said. "Live and let live." The Rajya Sabha MP said he himself and other leaders of his party would campaign for Abdullah in the Srinagar constituency, which the National Conference patron currently represents. Abdullah also appealed to the Congress to exhibit magnanimity and reach out to like-minded parties in other parts of the country to safeguard the secular character of the nation. "We have to keep our nation secular. Try hard in other places and reach an understanding (with other parties). We have to make this nation stronger and keep it secular and equal for everyone," Abdullah told the Congress. The country is faced with dangers from Pakistan and other neighbouring countries and the people living on the border in Jammu and Kashmir are the worst sufferers of the animosity between India and Pakistan, he said. "If there is peace between the two countries, the first beneficiary will be the people of the state." He said secular parties need to come together because communal forces only strengthen Pakistan, China and "our enemies of the nation and weaken the country from within". Azad appealed to the people of Jammu to vote for strengthening secularism and isolating communalism. "A communal India cannot face any nation but secular India can fight any country in the world." Meanwhile, the Jammu and Kashmir BJP alleged the Congress conceded to the National Conference's pro-separatist agenda. Azad said they were not working for BJP. "We have an alliance with like minded parties at five or six places, it (BJP) has alliance at over 40 places." On Prime Minister Narendra Modi's criticism of dynastic politics, Azad said, "The one who had no family what will he do? Abdullah also rejected the dynastic barb, saying nobody can come to power if people don't vote for them. "They are creating this fuss because they have no other issue. If an actor, a doctor, a film director, and others put forward their son in the same field, nobody raises dynastic thing. I am Sheikh Mohammad Abdullah's son and have seen politics form my childhood and faced problem. "Jawaharlal Nehru's daughter (India Gandhi) gave atom bomb to the nation to make it strong. She gave her blood for the nation and her son," Abdullah said. Azad said the BJP government is the most "corrupt and scandalous" in the entire world. "I have said this in presence of Modi in the house. You are not allowing inquiry from where the information will come to the fore," he said. Firstpost is now on WhatsApp. For the latest analysis, commentary and news updates, sign up for our WhatsApp services. Just go to Firstpost.com/Whatsapp and hit the Subscribe button. 
Lok Sabha Election 2019, West Bengal profile: Alipurduars, Jalpaiguri set for tough fight with BJP keen to make inroads into TMC bastion| West Bengal, one of the most politically crucial states of India, will undergo lengthy seven-phase polling, starting from 11 April. North Bengal will go to polls in two phases. While Cooch Behar and Alipurduars will be voting on 11 April, Jalpaiguri, Darjeeling and Raiganj will be voting on 18 April. Five constituencies across Maldha and Murshidabad go to polls on 23 April, while eight constituencies will be voting on 29 April. Among them are those constituencies which lie on the border with Jharkhand.  While seven constituencies go to polls on 6 May, eight constituencies each will vote on 12 and 19 May. The final phase will see Kolkata voting for its representatives. TMC, the ruling party, will be seeking to improve its seat tally, while BJP is looking to make inroads into the unchartered territory. BJP has a grand agenda of winning at least 22 seats in this year’s election. Last elections, BJP won just two seats but improved its vote share substantially. On the other hand, the TMC won an unprecedented 34 out of 42 seats in the state. After failing to reach any consensus on seat sharing with the Congress, the CPM is all alone in its fight to revive itself in its former bastion. With no alliances in place, the state is set to witness a multi-cornered fight. With electioneering reaching a fever pitch in Mamata Banerjee-led West Bengal, here is a look at the constituencies in the state: 1. Cooch Behar Lok Sabha Constituency Constituency number: 1 Total electors: 16,13,417 (2014 estimates) Male electors: 8,48,649 Female Electors: 7,64,768 Assembly Constituencies: Mathabhanga (SC), Coochbehar Uttar, Coochbehar Dakshin, Sitalkuchi (SC), Sitai (SC), Dinhata, Natabari Reserved: Yes. For Scheduled Castes Delimitation: Yes, the boundaries of the constituencies were redrawn after 2008 order. Results in last four Lok Sabha elections: This constituency has historically elected candidates of the All India Forward Bloc. In 1999, Amrendranath Roy of the AIFB won the seat. The AIFB continued its winning streak in 2004 and 2009 elections too. In 2004, Hiten Barman defeated his TMC rival to win the seat. In 2009, TMC gave a tougher fight to AIFB candidate Nripendra Nath Roy, yet lost by a margin of 40,000 votes. In 2014, Renuka Roy of the Trinamool Congress won the seat. After her untimely death in 2016, the Partha Pratim Ray of the TMC won the seat in the bypoll. Demographics: Many consider Cooch Behar to be one of the most neglected regions of Bengal. The local population in this constituency, apart from Bengalis, consist of Koch Rajbanshis, who claim to be the original inhabitants of the region of Cooch Behar. Classified as Scheduled Caste in West Bengal, the Koch Rajbanshis are a crucial vote-bank for every party in the constituency. 2. Alipurduars Lok Sabha Constituency Constituency number: 2 Total Electors: 14,70,911 (2014 estimates) Male Electors: 7,55,765 Female Electors: 7,15,146 Assembly Constituencies: Tufanganj, Kumargram (ST), Kalchini (ST), Alipurduars, Falakata (SC), Madarihat (ST), Nagrakata (ST) Reserved: Yes. For Scheduled Tribes Delimitation: Yes. Vidhan Sabha seats were redrawn after 2008 delimitation. Results in last four Lok Sabha elections: This constituency is a stronghold of the Revolutionary Socialist Party. However, the TMC won the seat in 2014 Lok Sabha polls. Its candidate Dasrath Tirkey defeated sitting MP Manohar Tirkey. Joachim Baxla of the RSP won the seat four consecutive times till 2009 elections. Demographics: Tribal communities make up at least 60 percent of the population in Alipurduars Lok Sabha constituency. 3. Jalpaiguri Lok Sabha Constituency Constituency number: 3 Total Electors: 15,31,469 (2014 estimates)  Male Electors: 7,95,704 Female Electors: 7,35,765 Assembly Constituencies: Mekliganj (SC), Dhupguri (SC), Maynaguri (SC), Jalpaiguri (SC), Rajganj (SC), Dabgram-Phulbari, Mal (ST) Reserved: Yes. For Scheduled Castes Delimitation: No Results in last four Lok Sabha elections: The CPM has won this seat thrice in last four elections. Minati Sen of the CPM won the seat in 1999 and 2004 elections. Mahendra Kumar Roy won the seat in 2009 before losing to Bijoy Chandra Barman in 2014 elections. Demographics: Part of the tea-growing belt of North Bengal, a sizeable number of people are directly or indirectly linked to the tea industry. The area has a large number of refugees from present-day Bangladesh. Moreover, 15 percent of the population is believed to be tribal. 4. Darjeeling Lok Sabha Constituency Constituency number: 4 Total Electors: 14,37,126 Male Electors: 7,37,184 Female Electors: 6,99,942 Assembly Constituencies: Kalimpong, Darjeeling, Kurseong, Matigara-Naxalbari (SC), Siliguri, Phansidewa (ST), Chopra Reserved: No Delimitation: Matigara-Naxalbari (SC) Vidhan Sabha constituency created within Darjeeling Lok Sabha constituency. On the other hand, Islampur seat went to Raiganj Lok Sabha constituency. Results in last four Lok Sabha elections: In the 1999 elections, SP Lepcha of the CPM won the seat. In 2004, CPM lost the seat to Congress’ Dawa Narbula. Since 2009 polls, the seat has been with the BJP. While former external affairs and finance minister Jaswant Singh won the seat in 2009 elections, Union Minister SS Ahluwalia won the seat in the 2014 elections. Demographics: Famed for its tea gardens and tourist avenues, Darjeeling Lok Sabha constituency is starkly divided into hilly and plain areas. While the Gorkhas are dominant in the three hilly Assembly segments, the plains in Siliguri division have a plurality of Bengali voters as well as Hindi-speaking Marwari traders. In fact, Chopra constituency in Uttar Dinajpur district has a substantial Muslim population too. 5. Raiganj Lok Sabha Constituency Constituency number: 5 Total Electors: 13,87,526 Male Electors: 7,24,014 Female Electors: 6,63,512 Assembly Constituencies: Islampur, Goalpokhar, Chakulia, Karandighi, Hemtabad (SC), Kaliaganj (SC), Raiganj Reserved: No Delimitation: Yes, Islampur Vidhan Sabha seat shifted from Darjeeling to Raiganj Lok Sabha constituency. Results in last four Lok Sabha elections: This constituency elected the late Congress leader Priya Ranjan Dasmunshi in the 1999 and 2004 elections. After he went into a coma, his wife Deepa Dasmunshi took over the seat in 2009. In 2014, Mohammad Saleem of the CPM won the seat, defeating Dasmunshi by a narrow margin of 1,600 votes. Demography: The constituency of Raiganj is dominated by Muslims, with some estimates putting the population at around 50 percent of the total population. Hence, the Muslim vote bank in the constituency is crucial for TMC as well as the Left Front. 6. Balurghat Lok Sabha Constituency Constituency number: 6 Total electors: 6,53,848 (2014 estimates) Male electors: 6,00,649 Female electors: 1,254,497 Reserved: No Assembly Constituencies: Itahar, Kushmandi (SC), Kumarganj, Balurghat, Tapan (ST), Gangarampur (SC), Harirampur Delimitation: Yes. Kaliaganj (SC) Assembly seat is part of Raiganj Lok Sabha constituency while Gazole (ST) is part of Malda Uttar Lok Sabha constituency now. Results in last four Lok Sabha elections: The seat has been a stronghold of the RSP until 2014 when Arpita Ghosh of the TMC won the seat. Demographics: While six of the constituencies are in Muslim dominated Dakshin Dinajpur district, one is in Uttar Dinajpur. The Muslims in the Dakshin Dinajpur district constitute 25 percent of the population, whereas SCs and STs together constitute another one-fourth of the population. The district is 85 percent rural according to the 2011 Census. 7. Malda Uttar Lok Sabha Constituency Constituency number: 7 Total electors: 14,25,428 (2014 estimates) Male electors: 7,40,749 Female electors: 6,84,679 Assembly Constituencies: Habibpur (ST), Gazole (SC), Chanchal, Harishchandrapur, Malatipur, Ratua, Maldaha (SC) Reserved: No Delimitation: Yes. Previously, Malda was a single constituency. In 2008, they were split into two new constituencies: Uttar and Dakshin. Results in last four Lok Sabha elections: Congress’ Mausam Noor has been the MP from this seat since 2009. Demographics: Malda Uttar Lok Sabha constituency is part of Malda district, where Muslims form just over 50 percent of the electorate. Schedule Castes and Scheduled Tribes form at least 29 percent of the population in the district. 8. Malda Dakshin Lok Sabha Constituency Constituency number: 8 Total electors: 13,47,143 (2014 estimates) Male electors: 6,92,386 Female electors: 6,54,757 Assembly Constituencies: Manikchak, English Bazar, Mothabari, Sujapur, Baisnabnagar, Farakka, Samserganj Reserved: No Delimitation: Yes. Came into being in 2008. Results in last four Lok Sabha elections:Congress leader Abu Hasem Khan Choudhary has been the MP since 2009. Demographics: This constituency shares similar demographic features like that observed in neighbouring Uttar Maldah constituency. Interestingly, the incumbent MP Abu Hasem Khan Choudhary is the brother of veteran Congress leader ABA Ghani Khan Choudhary, who held the unified Malda seat until his death in 2006. 9. Jangipur Lok Sabha Constituency Constituency number: 9 Total electors: 13,91,656 (2014 estimates) Male electors: 7,14,890 Female electors:6,76,766 Assembly Constituencies: Suti, Jangipur, Raghunathganj, Sagardighi, Lalgola,Nabagram (SC), Khargram (SC) Reserved: No Delimitation: Yes Results in last four Lok Sabha elections: Pranab Mukherjee represented the constituency between 2004 and 2012 when he became the President. Since 2012, the seat has been represented by Abhijit Mukherjee. Demographics: Jangipur is one of the most Muslim dominated constituencies in India, with at least 64 percent of the electorate belonging to the religious minority. 10. Bahrampur Lok Sabha Constituency Constituency number: 10 Total electors: 14,53,783 (2014 estimates) Male electors: 7,52,943 Female electors: 7,00,840 Assembly Constituencies: Burdwan (SC), Kandi, Bharatpur, Rejinagar, Beldanga, Baharampur, Naoda Reserved: No Delimitation: Yes. Ketugram Assembly seat went to Bolpur Lok Sabha constituency. New constituency of Rejinagar created. Results in last four Lok Sabha elections: Congress strongman Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury has been representing the constituency since 1999. Demographics: A Congress stronghold since last two decades, Baharampur in Murshidabad is dominated by Muslim voters, who constitute at least 63 percent of the population. 11. Murshidabad Lok Sabha Constituency Constituency number: 11 Total electors: 14,53,783 (2014 estimates)  Male electors: 7,52,943 Female electors: 7,00,840 Assembly Constituencies: Bhagwangola, Raninagar, Murshidabad, Hariharpara, Domkal, Jalangi, Karimpur Reserved: No Delimitation: Yes. Lalgola Assembly segment went to Jangipur Lok Sabha constituency. Results in last four Lok Sabha elections: While Moinul Hasan of the CPM won the seat in 1999 elections, Abdul Manan Hossain of the Congress won the seat in 2004 and 2009 elections. In 2014, Badaruddozza Khan of the CPM won the seat, beating the incumbent MP by a narrow margin of 18,000 votes. Demographics: Murshidabad is one of the four constituencies in West Bengal where Muslims are over 50 percent of the electorate. The contest here is expected to be between the Congress, TMC and the incumbent CPM. 12. Krishnanagar Lok Sabha Constituency Constituency number: 12 Total electors: 1,476,783 (2014 estimates) Male electors: 7,69,981 Female electors: 7,06,802 Assembly Constituencies: Tehatta, Palashipara, Kaliganj, Nakshipara, Chapra, Krishnanagar Uttar, Nabadwip Reserved: No Delimitation: Yes, Krishnanagar East and West were merged to form Krishnagar Uttar. Krishnaganj (SC) Assembly seat went to Ranaghat Lok Sabha constituency. Results in last four Lok Sabha elections: Satyabrata Mukherjee of the BJP surprisingly won the 1999 elections in the constituency, defeating CPM’s Dilip Chakraborty. However, CPM made a comeback in 2004, when its candidate Jyotirmoyee Sikdar won the seat. Since 2009 elections, the seat is held by actor-turned-politician Tapas Paul of the Trinamool Congress. Demographics: The constituency has a sizeable Muslim population (around 25 percent) as well as a chunk of Christian voters. Matua, a Namshudra socio-religious community, are found in good numbers in the constituency. 13. Ranaghat Lok Sabha Constituency Constituency number: 13 Total electors: 1,602,849 Male electors: 831,318 Female electors: 771,531 Assembly Constituencies: Krishnanagar Dakshin, Santipur, Ranaghat Uttar Paschim, Krishnaganj (SC), Ranaghat Uttar Purba (SC), Ranaghat Dakshin (SC), Chakdaha Reserved: Yes, for Scheduled Castes Delimitation: Yes, this is a new constituency which was created in 2008. Results in last four Lok Sabha elections: SO far, only TMC candidates have won the elections held for this seat. In 2009 polls, Sucharu Mohan Haldar won the seat while Tapas Mandal retained the seat for the TMC in 2014 polls. Demographics: Part of Nadia district, Matuas, a socio-religious community of Namashudras as well as Muslims are a significant chunk of the electorate in this constituency. 14. Bangaon Lok Sabha Constituency Constituency number: 14 Total electors: 1,540,713 (2014 estimates) Male electors: 796,650 Female electors: 744,063 Assembly Constituencies: Kalyani SC, Haringhata SC, Bagda SC, Bangaon Uttar SC, Bangaon Dakshin SC, Gaighata SC, Swarupnagar SC Reserved: Yes, for Scheduled Castes Delimitation: Yes. This constituency came into being in 2008. Results in last four Lok Sabha elections:The TMC has been winning this seat since 2009 elections. The incumbent MP is Mamata Thakur, who won the 2015 bypoll to enter Parliament. Demographics: This constituency is at the epicentre of the West Bengal’s recent flirtations with the Matua community. The community, which migrated from present-day Bangladesh after 1947, is headquartered at Thakurnagar, which falls under this Lok Sabha constituency. Matuas are mostly Namshudras, who are Bengal’s second largest Scheduled Caste community. Interestingly, the incumbent MP is the wife of the late son of the community leader, who is affectionately called “Boroma”. 15. Barrackpore Lok Sabha Constituency Constituency number: 15 Total electors: 1,287,222 (2014 estimates) Male electors: 6,82,366 Female electors: 6,04,856 Assembly Constituencies: Amdanga, Bijpur, Naihati, Bhatpara, Jagatdal, Noapara, Barrackpur Reserved: No Delimitation: Yes, in 2008. Titagarh Assembly constituency became Barrackpore Assembly constituency. Results in last four Lok Sabha elections: In the 1999 and 2004 elections, Tarit Baran Topdar of the CPM won the seat before he was defeated by former Union minister Dinesh Trivedi, who continues to represent the constituency in the Parliament. Demographics: The constituency is unique in the sense that there is a substantial non-Bengali speaking electorate. A total of 22 percent of the population are people who originate from Hindi-speaking areas in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. Muslims constitute 10 percent of the population. The city of Barrackpore, which is part of the larger Lok Sabha constituency, is also considered part of the Kolkata metropolitan region. 16. Dum Dum Lok Sabha Constituency Constituency number: 16 Total electors: 14,05,981 (2014 estimates) Male electors: 7,15,569 Female electors: 6,90,412 Assembly Constituencies: Khardaha, Dum Dum Uttar, Panihati, Kamarhati, Baranagar, Dum Dum, Rajarhat Gopalpur Reserved: No Delimitation: Yes, Rajarhat (SC) became Rajarhat Gopalpur (unreserved) while Belgachia East Assembly segment ceased to exist. Results in last four Lok Sabha elections: Sougata Roy of the TMC is the current MP representing the constituencies. Before Roy, Tapan Sikdar of the BJP won the seat twice in 1998 and 1999 elections. In 2004 polls, Amitava Nandy of the CPM won. However, he lost the seat to Roy in the 2009 polls. Demographics: Part of the greater Kolkata metropolitan area, the largely urban Dum Dum constituency has never been a stronghold of one particular party ever since it came into existence in 1977. At least 98 percent of the population lives in urban areas, while 11 percent of constituency belongs to the Scheduled Castes.  17. Barasat Lok Sabha Constituency Constituency number: 17 Total electors: 1,512,792 (2014 estimates) Male electors: 774,305 Female electors: 7,38,487 Assembly  Constituencies:  Habra, Ashoknagar, Rajarhat New Town, Bidhannagar, Madhyamgram, Barasat, Deganga Reserved: No Delimitation: Yes, Bagadaha and Bangaon Vidhan Sabha constituencies were no longer part of Barasat Lok Sabha constituency after 2008. Results in last four Lok Sabha elections: Ranjit Kumar Panja of the TMC won the seat in the 1998 and 1999 elections. Subrata Bose of the Forward Bloc won the seat in 2004 elections. Since 2009 polls, Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar of the TMC is representing the constituency. Demographics: Barasat Lok Sabha constituency, which comes under the North 24 Paraganas district, has a sizeable chunk of Matua and Muslim voters. 18. Basirhat Lok Sabha Constituency Constituency number: 18 Total electors: 1,490,596 (2014 estimates) Male electors: 7,77,768 Female electors: 7,12,828 Assembly Constituencies: Baduria, Haroa, Minakhan (SC), Sandeshkhali (ST), Basirhat Dakshin, Basirhat Uttar, Hingalganj (SC) Reserved: No Delimitation: Yes. After 2008, Hasnabad Assembly seat ceased to exist, while Basirhat Assembly seat got bifurcated into Basirhat Uttar and Basirhat Dakshin. Swarupnagar seat got merged with neighbouring Bangaon Lok Sabha constituency. Results in last four Lok Sabha elections: Ajoy Chakraborty of the CPI won the seat between 1996 and 2004. In 2009, Haji Nurul Islam of the Trinamool Congress won the seat. The party repeated its performance in the 2014 elections, as Idris Ali defeated his nearest CPI rival to win the seat. Demographics: In the aftermath of the 2010 Deganga riots, Basirhat was under the spotlight for the ensuing communal polarisation. The constituency is over 50 percent Muslim, which explains why last time around both CPM and the TMC fielded candidates from the minority community here.  19. Jaynagar Lok Sabha Constituency Constituency number: 19 Total electors: 1,458,724 (2014 estimates) Male electors: 7,57,902 Female electors: 7,00,822 Assembly Constituencies: Gosaba (SC), Basanti (SC), Kultali (SC), Jaynagar (SC), Canning Paschim (SC), Canning Purba, Magrahat Purba (SC) Reserved: Yes. For Scheduled Castes Delimitation: Yes. After 2008, Sandeshkhali Assembly seat went to Basirhat Lok Sabha constituency, while Magrahat Purba Assembly constituency was added to Jaynagar Lok Sabha constituency. Results in last four Lok Sabha elections: The constituency returned Sanat Kumar Mandal of the RSP eight times to the Parliament. In 2009, however, Tarun Kumar Mondal was elected on a Socialist Unity Centre of India (Communist) ticket. In 2014, Pratima Mondal of the TMC defeated her nearest RSP rival to win the seat. Demographics: Muslims are the single biggest chunk of electors in Jaynagar Lok Sabha constituency, comprising one-third of the electorate. Different groups of Scheduled Castes form at least 38 percent of the electorate in this constituency. 20. Mathurapur Lok Sabha Constituency Constituency number: 20 Total electors: 1,488,784 (2014 estimates) Male electors: 7,72,279 Female electors: 7,16,505 Assembly Constituencies: Patharpratima, Kakdwip, Sagar, Kulpi, Raidighi, Mandirbazar (SC), Magrahat Paschim Reserved: Yes. For Scheduled Castes Delimitation: Yes. In 2008. Results in last four Lok Sabha elections: A CPM stronghold, Radhika Ranjan Pramanick was a five-term MP from the constituency – 1989 to 2004. In 2004 elections, Basudeb Barman was elected as the new MP. In 2009 elections, the CPM lost the seat for the first time in 25 years as Choudhary Mohan Jatua of the TMC was elected as the MP. Jatua was re-elected in 2014 elections. Demographics: The Schedule Castes and Muslims, who together constitute over 50 percent of the population in the constituency, generally determine the electoral fate of the candidates.  21. Diamond Harbour Lok Sabha Constituency Constituency number: 21 Total electors: 15,55,914 (2014 estimates) Male electors: 8,16,259 Female electors: 7,39,655 Assembly Constituencies: Diamond Harbour, Falta, Satgachia, Bishnupur (SC), Maheshtala, Budge Budge, Metiaburuz Reserved: No Delimitation: Yes. In 2008. Garden Reach Assembly constituency ceased to exist. Results in last four Lok Sabha elections: Between 1996 and 2009, Samik Lahiri of the CPM continued to win the seat. In 2009 elections, Somendra Nath Mitra of the TMC won the seat. The seat is currently being held by Abhishek Banerjee, the nephew of chief minister Mamata Banerjee. Demographics: Metiabruz, Maheshtala and Diamond Harbour Vidhan Sabha segments have a plurality of Muslim voters, while non-Muslim voters gain primacy in rest of the Assembly segments within the Lok Sabha constituency. According to a 2009 report, Muslims may be accounting for two-fifth of the electorate in the constituency.  22. Jadavpur Lok Sabha Constituency Constituency number: 22 Total electors: 15,95,746 (2014 estimates)  Male electors: 8,11,441 Female electors: 7,84,305 Assembly Constituencies: Baruipur Purba (SC), Baruipur Paschim, Sonarpur Dakshin, Bhangar, Jadavpur, Sonarpur Uttar, Tollyganj Reserved: No Delimitation: Yes, in 2008. Results in last four Lok Sabha elections: In 2009, veteran TMC leader Krishna Bose was elected from this constituency. In 2004, Sujan Chakraborty of the CPM managed to snatch the seat back from the TMC. Since the 2009 polls, the seat is being held by the TMC. Sugata Bose is the sitting MP from Jadavpur. The seat is also significant for having elected stalwarts like Indrajit Gupta of the CPI, Somnath Chatterjee of the CPM and current chief minister Mamata Banerjee. Demographics: Part of Kolkata Metropolitan Area, Jadavpur, according to a report in India Today, has a sizeable number of Muslim voters (33 percent or more), who can determine the electoral fate of candidates.  23. Kolkata Dakshin Lok Sabha Constituency Constituency number: 23 Total electors: 16,85,296 (2014 estimates) Male electors: 8,90,251 Female electors: 7,95,045 Assembly Constituencies: Kasba, Behala Purba, Behala Paschim, Kolkata Port, Bhabanipur, Rashbehari, Ballygunge Reserved: No Delimitation: Yes. Before 2008, Tollygunge and Chowrangee Assembly segments were part of this Lok Sabha constituency. Results in last four Lok Sabha elections: Mamata Banerjee represented the constituency between 1991 and 2011, when she vacated the seat to become the state chief minister. Since 2011, the seat is being held by Subrata Bakshi of the TMC. 24. Kolkata Uttar Lok Sabha Constituency Constituency number: 24 Total electors: 14,33,985 (2014 estimates) Male electors: 7,97,437 Female electors: 6,36,548 Assembly Constituencies: Chowranghee, Entally, Beleghata, Jorasanko, Shyampukur, Maniktala, Kashipur Belgachhia Reserved: No Delimitation: Yes. The constituency came into existence after the merger of Kolkata North East and Kolkata North West constituencies. Results in last four Lok Sabha elections: Sudip Bandopadhyay of the TMC has been representing the constituency since 2009. Demographics: The Assembly segments that once made up parts of  North East constituency are known to have a sizeable population of Muslims, who can swing the election in anyone’s favour. 25. Howrah Lok Sabha Constituency Constituency number: 25 Total Electors: 1,505,099 (2014 estimates) Male Electors: 8,02,653 Female Electors: 7,02,446 Assembly Constituencies: Bally, Howrah Uttar, Howrah Madhya, Shibpur, Howrah Dakshin, Sankrail (SC), Panchla Reserved: No Delimitation: Yes. In 2008 Results in last four Lok Sabha elections: Swadesh Chakraborty of the CPM won the seat in 1999 and 2004 elections. In 2009 elections, he lost of Ambica Banerjee by a margin of over 20,000 votes. Since 2013, the seat is being held by Prasun Banerjee. Demographics: The constituency covers the area of Howrah, one of the oldest and heavily crowded places in Kolkata. Interestingly, estimates suggest that at least 25 percent of the population is non-Bengali, originating from Hindi-speaking areas of UP, Bihar and Rajasthan. This is a factor which was also exploited by the BJP last elections. 26. Uluberia Lok Sabha Constituency Constituency number: 26 Total electors: 14,48,632 (2014 estimates) Male electors: 7,61,951 Female electors: 6,86,681 Assembly Constituencies: Uluberia Purba, Uluberia Uttar (SC), Uluberia Dakshin, Shyampur, Bagnan, Amta, Udaynarayanpur Reserved: No Delimitation: Yes, Kalyanpur Assembly segment ceases to exist after 2008. Results in last four Lok Sabha elections: Hannan Mollah of the CPM represented Uluberia in the Lok Sabha between 1980 and 2009. In 2009 and 2014 elections, Sultan Ahmed of the TMC won the seat. After Ahmed’s death in 2017, his wife Sajda Ahmed won the seat in a by-election. Demographics: Muslims constitute at least 40 percent of the electorate in this constituency. This meant that all parties expect the BJP fielded Muslim candidates in the 2018 bypoll. However, BJP fielded a Hindu candidate in order to reap the split in Muslim votes. 27. Sreerampur Lok Sabha Constituency Constituency number: 27 Total electors: 16,24,038 (2014 estimates) Male electors: 8,47,931 Female electors: 7,76,107 Assembly Constituencies: Jagatballavpur, Domjur, Uttarpara, Sreerampur, Champdani, Chanditala, Jangipara Reserved: No Delimitation: Yes. Panchla Assembly segment shifted to Howrah Lok Sabha constituency. Results in last four Lok Sabha elections: Ali Akbar Khandokar of TMC won the seat in 1998 and 1999 elections. In 2004 elections, Santasri Chatterjee of the CPM won the seat. However, he lost to Kalyan Banerjee of the TMC in 2009 elections. Banerjee is the sitting MP. Demographics: Sreerampur, an industrial zone in West Bengal, is one of the three constituencies in the state where voters from Hindi speaking states of Rajasthan, UP and Bihar are a major factor. 28. Hooghly Lok Sabha Constituency Constituency number: 28 Total electors: 16,30,042 (2014 estimates) Male electors: 8,36,584 Female electors: 7,93,458 Assembly constituencies: Singur, Chandannagar, Chunchura, Balagarh (SC), Pandua, Saptagram, Dhanekhali (SC) Reserved: No Delimitation: Yes. In 2008. Results in last four Lok Sabha elections: Rupchand Pal of the CPM represented the constituency in the Lok Sabha from 1989 to 2009. Since 2009, Ratna De of the TMC is the sitting MP. Demographics: Known for being the epicentre of the Singur protests, Hooghly is part of the industrial-agriculture belt in the state. In Hooghly, Muslims constitute at least 15 percent of the population, while tribal groups like Mundas and Santhals are approximately 5 percent of the population. 29. Arambagh Lok Sabha Constituency Constituency number: 29 Total electors: 16,00,293 (2014 estimates) Male electors: 8,33,629 Female electors: 7,66,664 Assembly Constituencies: Haripal, Tarakeswar, Pursurah, Arambag (SC), Goghat (SC), Khanakul, Chandrakona (SC) Reserved: Yes. For Scheduled Castes Delimitation: The seat became reserved for SCs from 2008 onwards. Results in last four Lok Sabha elections: CPM’s Anil Basu won the seat consecutively between 1984 and 2009. In 2009 elections, Shakti Mohan Malik of the CPM won the seat. He lost the seat to Aparupa Poddar of the TMC in the 2014 elections. Demographics: Arambagh had been a stronghold of the Left even during tough times. In fact, Anil Basu of the CPM registered the biggest electoral victory in Indian history in 2004 (now surpassed) in this constituency. However, in 2014, the seat fell to TMC for the first time. The majority of the constituency is rural in nature. 30. Tamluk Lok Sabha Constituency Constituency number: 30 Total electors: 15,27,273 (2014 estimates)  Male electors: 7,96,779 Female electors: 7,30,494 Assembly Constituency: Tamluk, Panskura Purba, Moyna, Nandakumar, Mahisadal, Haldia (SC), Nandigram Reserved: No Delimitation: Yes. In 2008. Results in last four Lok Sabha elections: Lakshman Chandra Seth of the CPM won the seat in 1999 and 2004 elections. Suvendu Adhikari of the TMC won the election in 2009 and 2014. In the 2016 bypoll, Dibyendu Adhikari of the TMC won the seat.  31. Kanthi Lok Sabha Constituency Constituency number: 31 Total electors: 14,90,409 (2014 estimated) Male electors: 7,77,345 Female electors: 7,13,064 Assembly Constituencies: Chandipur, Patashpur, Kanthi Uttar, Bhagabanpur, Khejuri (SC), Kanthi Dakshin, Ramnagar Reserved: No Delimitation: Yes, in 2008. Egra constituency was shifted to Medinipur Lok Sabha constituency, while Mugberia Assembly segment ceased to exist. Results in last four Lok Sabha elections: Nitish Sengupta of the TMC won the seat in 1999 elections. In 2004 elections, Prasanta Pradhan of the CPM won the seat. Since the 2009 election, TMC’s Sisir Kumar Adhikari is representing the constituency. Demographics: Part of Purba Midnapore district in southern Bengal, Kanthi, a largely rural constituency, has a substantial Muslim population, which can be a major factor in deciding close contests. 32. Ghatal Lok Sabha Constituency Constituency number: 32 Total electors: 16,10,489 (2014 estimates) Male electors: 8,35,803 Female electors: 7,74,686 Assembly Constituencies: Panskura Paschim, Sabang, Pingla, Debra, Daspur, Ghatal (SC), Keshpur (SC) Reserved: No Delimitation: Yes. The constituency came into existence only in 2009. Results in last four Lok Sabha elections: In the 2009 elections, Gurudas Dasgupta of CPI won the seat. In 2014 polls, Dipak Adhikari (Dev) of the TMC won the seat.  33. Jhargram Lok Sabha Constituency Constituency number: 33 Total electors: 14,75,112 (2014 estimates) Male electors: 7,53,840 Female electors: 7,21,272 Assembly Constituencies: Nayagram (ST), Gopiballavpur, Jhargram, Garhbeta, Salboni, Binpur (ST), Bandwan (ST) Reserved: Yes. For Scheduled Tribes Delimitation: Yes. In 2008 Results in last four Lok Sabha elections: CPM’s Rupchand Murmu represented the constituency between 1991 and 2009. In the 2009 elections, CPM’s Pulin Bihari Baske won the seat. However, he lost to TMC’s Uma Saren in 2014 polls. Demographics: This constituency is dominated by the tribal electorate. Tribals constitute 30 percent of the population in this constituency. The Santhals are the most dominant tribe, as they account for 50 percent of the total tribal population in the state. It is to be noted that BJP has been making inroads into the tribal vote bank in this constituency. 34. Medinipur Lok Sabha Constituency Parliamentary Constituency - 34 Total Electors: 1,499,673 (2014 estimates) Male Electors: 770,363 Female Electors: 729,310 Assembly Constituencies: Egra, Dantan, Keshiary (ST), Kharagpur Sadar, Narayangarh, Kharagpur, Medinipur Reserved: No Delimitation: Yes. After delimitation, Egra Vidhan Sabha segment transferred to Medinipur. Results in last four Lok Sabha elections: Former home minister Indrajit Gupta was the most prominent MP from this constituency. After his death in 2001, Prabodh Panda continued to represent the constituency till 2014, when he lost to Sandhya Roy of TMC. Demographics: Medinipur, which comprises large parts of the Paschim Midnapore district, is situated in Jangalmahal region, a contagious tribal belt in West Bengal. Tribal population, estimated to be around 15 percent, can be crucial for political parties in this constituency. 35. Purulia Lok Sabha Constituency Constituency number: 35 Total electors: 14,71,933 (2014 estimates) Male electors: 7,64,758 Female electors: 7,07,175 Assembly Constituencies: Balarampur, Baghmundi, Joypur, Purulia, Manbazar (ST), Kashipur, Para (SC) Reserved: No Delimitation: Yes. In 2008. Results in last four Lok Sabha elections: Between 1991 and 2009, Bir Singh Mahato of the AIFB represented the constituency. In 2009 elections, Narahari Mahato won the seat on an AIFB ticket. The TMC breached this bastion for the first time in 2014 when Mriganko Mahato defeated his AIFB rival by over 1.5 lakh votes. Demographics: Purulia is one of the four constituencies of West Bengal where tribal votes can influence the elections. Tribals account for at least 20 percent of the electorate in Purulia. Kurmis, an Adivasi group dominant in Jangalmahal region, are found in sizeable numbers in the constituency. 36. Bankura Lok Sabha Constituency Constituency number: 36 Total electors: 15,03,812 (2014 estimated) Male electors: 7,75,893 Female electors: 7,27,919 Assembly Constituencies: Raghunathpur (SC), Saltora (SC), Chhatna, Ranibandh (ST), Raipur (ST), Taldangra, Bankura Reserved: No Delimitation: Yes. In 2008 Results in last four Lok Sabha elections: Moon Moon Sen, the yesteryear actress, is the sitting MP belonging to the TMC. She defeated nine-term CPM MP Basudeb Acharia in the 2014 elections. Demographics: Bankura is part of the Jangalmahal belt, a region dominated by tribal groups. Santhals Bhumij, Koras, Mahali, Mech, Munda and Kora are some of the tribes in the area. Tribal population in Bankura stands at only 10 percent. However, if one adds Kurmis, who have been demanding Scheduled Tribe status since long, to the list, Bankura may stand out as a tribal-dominated rural constituency. 37. Bishnupur Lok Sabha Constituency Constituency number: 37 Total electors: 14,66,921 (2014 estimates) Male electors: 7,59,317 Female electors: 7,07,604 Assembly Constituencies: Barjora, Onda, Bishnupur, Katulpur (SC), Indas (SC), Sonamukhi (SC), Khandaghosh (SC) Reserved: Yes. For Scheduled Castes Delimitation: Yes. Taldangra, Raipur (ST) and Ranibandh (ST) Assembly segments went to Bankura Lok Sabha constituency. Indpur ceased to exist as a constituency. Results in last four Lok Sabha elections: Sandhya Bauri was elected on a CPM ticket in the 1999 elections. In 2004 and 2009 elections, CPM candidate Susmita Bauri was elected the MP. In 2014, Saumitra Khan of the TMC was elected MP. Demographics: The eponymous region, known for its historical sites and Hindustani classical music, was a bastion of the Left until 2014.  The elections in this constituency are highly influenced by the Scheduled Caste population, which is estimated to be around 32 percent. 38. Bardhaman Purba Lok Sabha Constituency Constituency number: 38 Total electors: 15,32,244 (2014 estimates) Male electors: 7,95,545 Female electors: 7,36,699 Assembly Constituencies: Raina (SC), Jamalpur (SC), Kalna (SC), Memari, Purbasthali Dakshin, Purbasthali Uttar, Katwa Reserved: Yes. For Scheduled Castes Delimitation: Created in 2008 Results in last four Lok Sabha elections: In 2009, CPM’s Anup Kumar Saha became an MP from this constituency. Sunil Kumar Mandal of the TMC won the seat in 2014 elections. 39. Burdwan Durgapur Lok Sabha Constituency Constituency number: 39 Total electors: 15,83,498 (2014 estimates) Male electors: 8,21,377 Female electors: 7,62,121 Assembly Constituencies: Bardhaman Dakshin, Bardhaman Uttar (SC), Monteswar, Bhatar, Galsi (SC), Durgapur Purba, Durgapur Paschim Reserved: No Delimitation: Yes. This is a new constituency created in 2008. Results in last four Lok Sabha elections: Saidul Haque of the CPM won the election in 2009. Mumtaz Sanghamita of the TMC defeated Haque in 2014 elections to win the seat. Demography: The constituency comes under Burdwan district, which is known as the rice bowl of West Bengal. At least, 72 percent of the constituency is rural.  In the last election, two women candidates fought the election here, in a bid to woo over 7.6 lakh women voters – one of the highest in the state. 40. Asansol Lok Sabha Constituency Constituency number: 40 Total electors: 14,69,684 (2014 estimates) Male electors: 7,91,896  Female electors: 6,77,788 Assembly Constituencies: Pandaveswar, Raniganj, Jamuria, Asansol, Dakshin, Asansol Uttar, Kulti, Barabani Reserved: No Delimitation: Yes. In 2008 Results in last four Lok Sabha elections: Union Minister Babul Supriyo won the seat in the 2014 elections. He defeated the sitting MP Bansa Gopal Choudhary of the CPM. Between 1998 and 2005, Bikash Choudhary of the CPM represented the constituency. Demographics: Asansol is the second largest city in West Bengal, situated close to Jharkhand, coal and railway industries have dominated the economic landscape of this area. Coal workers are a big vote bank in the constituency. Due to economic opportunities in the area, a large number of non-Bengali Hindi speaking migrants too have settled in Asansol, making it a cosmopolitan vote bank for parties like the BJP. 41. Bolpur Lok Sabha Constituency Constituency number: 41 Total electors: 15,38,429 (2014 estimates) Male electors: 7,98,384 Female electors: 7,40,045 Assembly Constituencies: Ketugram, Mangalkot, Ausgram (SC), Bolpur, Nanoor (SC), Labpur, Mayureswar Reserved: Yes. For Scheduled Caste. Delimitation: Yes, in 2008, the seat became reserved for SCs. Results in last four Lok Sabha elections: The constituency gained legendary status due to its association with veteran leader Somnath Chatterjee, who represented the constituency between 1985 and 2009. In 2009, the seat was won by Ram Chandra Dome of the CPM. In 2014 elections, Dome lost to TMC candidate Anupam Hazra. Demographics: Situated near the Jharkhand border, Bolpur, which is a rural constituency, consists of at least 30 percent voters who belong to the Scheduled Castes. 42. Birbhum Lok Sabha Constituency Constituency number: 42 Total electors: 14,95,108 (2014 estimates) Male electors: 7,73,457 Female electors: 7,21,651 Assembly Constituencies: Dubrajpur (SC), Suri, Sainthia (SC), Rampurhat, Hansan, Nalhati, Murarai Reserved: No Delimitation: Yes, in 2008. The seat was made open for all candidates. Results in last four Lok Sabha elections: Ram Chandra Dome was a long-serving MP from Birbhum, representing the constituency between1989 and 2009. Since 2009, TMC’s Satabdi Roy represents the constituency. Demographics: Bordering Jharkhand, Birbhum is largely a rural constituency, dominated by Schedule Castes and tribal communities. Among the tribes, the Santhals account for over 80 percent of the tribal population in the district. Scheduled Caste population accounts for a third of the total population. Firstpost is now on WhatsApp. For the latest analysis, commentary and news updates, sign up for our WhatsApp services. Just go to Firstpost.com/Whatsapp and hit the Subscribe button. 
BJP to contest in all 28 Lok Sabha seats in Karnataka, confirms KS Eshwarappa; list of candidates expected tonight| Bengaluru: The Bharatiya Janata Party will field its candidates in all 28 Lok Sabha constituencies in Karnataka, senior BJP leader and MLA KS Eshwarappa said Wednesday. The former deputy chief minister also said the list of candidates has been almost finalised and could be released Wednesday night. "Our list of candidates is almost final. In all likelihood our national president would release it tonight. We are contesting in all the 28 Lok Sabha seats.We are getting more than expected overwhelming support," Eshwarappa told reporters.  He was also asked about the Mandya parliamentary seat from where actor Sumalatha, the widow of popular Kannada film actor and former Mandya MP, is in the fray. There are 28 Lok Sabha seats in Karnataka, including Mandya, the Shivamogga MLA said. Earlier when Sumalatha announced her decision to contest from the constituency as an Independent, BJP state president B S Yeddyurappa had said the party would take a call on Mandya. Sumalatha filed her nomination from Mandya Wednesday. Replying to a query that fielding a candidate in Mandya would mean there is no support for Sumalatha, Eshwarappa said, "I am telling you specifically that there is no dilemma." "When I said that we are fielding a candidate in Mandya, what should it mean? We will not back stab our candidate by supporting any other person," he said. The decision to field candidates in all the 28 seats was taken by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and BJP chief Amit Shah after consulting the party state president, Eshwarappa said. The BJP will make all efforts to win all the seats in the state, he added. Sources in BJP told PTI that the party decided to field a candidate in Mandya as a precautionary measure. "What if Sumalatha suddenly withdraws her nomination succumbing to some pressure. Earlier also, we had a similar experience. This is the reason that we have decided to field our candidate," a senior BJP functionary said. Karnataka will go to the polls in two phases, 14 constituencies each, on 18 and 23 April. Firstpost is now on WhatsApp. For the latest analysis, commentary and news updates, sign up for our WhatsApp services. Just go to Firstpost.com/Whatsapp and hit the Subscribe button. 
Lok Sabha Election 2019: Former judge and IPS officer in Kamal Haasan’s MNM's first list for 21 Tamil Nadu, Puducherry seats| Chennai: A retired IPS officer and a retired district judge are among the first list of 21 candidates released by actor-turned politician Kamal Haasan's Makkal Needhi Maiam Wednesday for the upcoming Lok Sabha elections in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. Haasan said he wished to contest the 18 April elections but would take a call as per the advice of the party's executive committee. The party released names of candidates for 20 constituencies in Tamil Nadu and for the lone seat in the union territory Puducherry.  The candidates for the remaining 19 seats would be announced on 24 March and would include "some important" names, Haasan told reporters here. The first list included south Indian actor M Nassar's wife Kameela Nassar (Chennai Central), retired IPS officer AG Mourya (Chennai North) and retired district judge K Guruviah (Nagapattinam). "Some important names are there in the next list, which would be announced on 24 March in Coimbatore," he said. Asked if he wishes to contest elections, Haasan, who launched his party in February last year, said "Yes, but let them (Executive Committee) tell me, let them give me the permission to do that. Nobody will stop me. But they will have to advise me on the best course of action." On the delay in announcing the candidates, he said various democratic steps, including holding interviews, had to be followed before finalising the list. The Election Commission has allotted the 'battery torch' symbol to MNM. The ruling AIADMK and main opposition DMK have announced candidates for the 20 seats each they are contesting in Tamil Nadu. Firstpost is now on WhatsApp. For the latest analysis, commentary and news updates, sign up for our WhatsApp services. Just go to Firstpost.com/Whatsapp and hit the Subscribe button. 
Narendra Modi’s blog targets a vocal and elite English-speaking audience, challenges Congress' clout in its last bastion| There is something scarily meticulous about Narendra Modi’s election campaign. He has never lost an election, and while there is always a first time for everything, the planning that goes behind his strategies are worth noting. The prime minister posted a blog Wednesday on his app, hitting out at Congress’ disrespect for institutions and reminded the readers of its checkered past undermining India’s public institutions and disrespecting the core values of the Constitution of India. Before we come to the contents of the blog that has expectedly ruffled Congress' feathers, the pertinent question is why the blog? Why now? Whom is it addressed to? And what purpose may it serve?  Modi is a 24x7 politician. He is an activist prime minister, motivated by reasons that are not easily apparent. Congress has erred in thinking that corruption charges could stick to him. It clearly hasn’t. Modi’s plan for India is grand and he wants to convey an impression to the electorate that the foundation stones for India’s quantum leap have been laid in his first term, so he must be allowed a second stint to finish the unfinished business and make India a major force in the comity of nations. While that’s the grand plan, an election must be won and in a diverse and vast democracy such as India, there is no surety that the wave of 2014 would be repeated five years later. Modi was then a challenger. It was easier for him to sell dreams. Now he is an incumbent and is subjected to the laws of anti-incumbency. An account must be given whether he has been able to fulfil his promises. If the gap between promises and achievements is large enough, his re-election chances may fall within that abyss. Modi’s campaign strategy, at one level, hinges on making the people aware of the work that has been done. In his speeches and rallies, we find frequent mention of Centre's schemes that have gained success such as Swachh Bharat, electricity in villages, cooking gas for poor households, neem-coated urea for farmers, financial inclusion through Jan Dhan accounts and linking them with Aadhaar and mobile phone numbers for easy and direct transfer of benefits to the poor to reduce spillage and corruption, major tax reforms such as GST, reforms such as Insolvency and Bankruptcy code that addresses banks’ NPA problems, and so on. At another level, the prime minister has moved to assuage the sentiment of farmers who have been dealt a double whammy due to low inflation that meant a dip in food prices, reducing farmers’ incomes and forcing them to take more debts whereas improvement in irrigation facilities have led to a bumper crop that has to be dumped on the streets. Modi has clearly failed to tackle the crises plaguing agriculture sector in India. As an article on International Food Policy Research Institute's website says, to tackle the problems of high price volatility, climate risks, and indebtedness that affects Indian farmers, the Centre needs to increase incomes, generate more employment opportunities, reduce risks in agriculture and develop agri-infrastructure. Modi did so by extending welfare benefits and announcing a new scheme, offering an annual payment of Rs 6,000 directly in the bank accounts of 100 million small and marginal farmers to provide some sort of income support. The budget also proved to be another tool for Modi where he addressed or sought to address the trading community and the middle class — both important constituencies for the Modi government that were feeling a little left out. Having covered his base — or that’s what he may have calculated — Modi has now moved to address one more constituency through his blog that may have a limited electoral impact but wields a lot of influence in deciding the narratives before elections. The blog is written in English, posted in his app. These conditions make it apparent that it is targeted towards a select, vocal, elite audience that takes part in social media and TV debates and has a firm grip over mediums of mass communication. The prime minister is aware that a significant section of this class is millennials or first-time voters who may not know about Congress’ past and its role in the darkest era of Indian democracy. He went into some detail to clarify that Congress’ stance has always been antithetical to democracy — be it the imposition of Emergency or lack of internal democracy in its functioning. Since there is a lot of noise about freedom of expression being curtailed under the Modi government, the prime minister reminded the readers that the first amendment to the Constitution carried out by the Jawaharlal Nehru government was to curb free speech. He then segued it with a recent incident in Congress-ruled Karnataka where “just a few days ago, the nation watched with horror when a few youngsters were arrested for expressing their true feelings at a programme in Karnataka, where the Congress is sharing power". Modi’s biggest point was, however, the “contempt for the courts” that Congress has historically displayed starting from former prime minister Indira Gandhi’s attempts to undermine the independence of the judiciary by handpicking a pliant Chief Justice of India over his other respected colleagues. “Congress’ contempt for the courts is anyway legendary. It was Mrs Indira Gandhi who called for a 'committed judiciary', which seeks to make the courts more loyal to a family than to the Constitution… This pursuit of a 'committed judiciary' made Congress overlook several respected Judges while appointing the Chief Justice of India. Congress’ modus operandi is simple- reject, discredit and threaten. If a judicial verdict goes against them, they reject it, then they discredit the judge and thereafter, talk about bringing impeachment motions against the judge,” he writes. Modi also touches upon the disrespect shown towards the armed forces and government institutions such as the Parliament when in 2013 Rahul Gandhi had torn apart an ordinance in a news conference. These incidents are well-known but the penning of the blog shows that Modi wants to push back against the recurrent Congress narrative that institutions and democracy are under threat from the Modi government. Congress should worry because challenging its clout in its very last bastion means that Modi is feeling secure about the other constituencies. Firstpost is now on WhatsApp. For the latest analysis, commentary and news updates, sign up for our WhatsApp services. Just go to Firstpost.com/Whatsapp and hit the Subscribe button. 
Lok Sabha Election 2019; pre-poll trends updates: BJP terms Congress-NC alliance in J&K 'eyewash', says grand old party has surrendered to 'pro-separatist' agenda|  Lok Sabha Election 2019 Tracker LATEST updates: The Jammu and Kashmir unit of BJP Wednesday alleged that the Congress had conceded to National Conference's (NC) pro-separatist agenda after the two parties announced a pre-poll alliance in the state. In a sharp retort to BJP, which lauded Prime Minister Narendra Modi for Nirav Modi's arrest in London, Priyanka Gandhi said," This is their achievement, who allowed him to leave the country?"  Prime Minister Narendra Modi interacted with 25 lakh security guards across the country via audio bridge on Wednesday. PTI quoted Pradipta Bhatacharya as saying, "Talks between Congress and Left Front in West Bengal failed due to Left Front's reluctance to forge a formal alliance."  Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad and NC patron Farooq Abdullah jointly told the media that there will be a "friendly contest" between the two parties on the Anantnag and Baramulla seats. Farooq Abdullah announced the seat-sharing deal between Congress-National Conference in Jammu and Kashmir. "Jammu and Udhampur will be contested by Congress, I will contest from Srinagar. We are also discussing the Ladakh seat," said the NC chairman. Priyanka Gandhi reacted shortly after BJP workers did a 'shuddhi' as she garlanded the statue of former Prime Minister Lal bahadur Shastri. She said, "It doesn't bother me, let them do what they want to do." While interacting with students in Imphal, Rahul Gandhi took a pot shot at Prime Minister Narendra Modi over his educational qualification. "We still have no access to prime minister's university degree. Nobody knows whether he went to a university or not." Priyanka Gandhi visited the ancestral home of former Prime Minister Lal Bhahadur Shastri at Ramnagar, Varanasi. The Congress General Secretary for Uttar Pradesh East garlanded the statue of Shastri at the ancestral home. She was accorded a warm welcome by party leaders upon reaching Varanasi. After Priyanka left the ancestral home, BJP workers "purify" Shastri statue because the Congress general secretary had garlanded it. Clashes broke out between Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Congress workers at the rally of Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, Congress General Secretary of Uttar Pradesh East on Wednesday. She is currently on the last leg of her three-day Ganga Yatra at Assi Ghat, Uttar Pradesh. In a latest development in Uttar Pradesh politics, Bahujan Samajwadi Party (BSP) supremo Maywati said that she will not fight the Lok Sabha polls, which will be starting from 11 April. Meanwhile Rahul Gandhi was addressing a public rally in Imphal. The Congress chief asserted that there will be no encroachment on North East. He said that the grand old party will fight to ensure that the Citizenship (Amendment) Bill does not become a law. Priyanka Gandhi Vadra hit back at Modi, who earlier wrote a blogpost criticising Congress' dynastic politics. She said "BJP has systematically attacked every institution in last 5 years including the media. PM should stop thinking people are fools and understand that they see through this.  The Samajwadi Party and Bahujan Samaj Party on Tuesday announced they would contest all 48 Lok Sabha seats in Maharashtra in alliance. Meanwhile, the CPM-led Left front announced candidates for 38 Lok Sabha seats in West Bengal and said it will wait for Congress's response on an alliance in the state, before declaring nominees for the remaining constituencies.   At a press conference in New Delhi, AAP Delhi convenor Gopal Rai ruled out an alliance with Congress. He said that the AAP will contest on its own with the help of the people to ensure defeat of the BJP on all the seats of Delhi. He further said that party chief Arvind Kejriwal will start a campaign to demand Delhi statehood from 23 March. Reports claim that Sharad Pawar is playing a mediator to bring together arch rivals Congress and Aam Aadmi Party in Delhi. After Pawar's intervention, Delhi Congress chief Sheila Dikshit met with colleagues at her home to reconsider a tie-up with AAP - an idea that she has resisted vehemently so far. Prime Minister on 31 March, will interact through video conference with people who have pledged their support to 'Main bhi Chowkidaar' movement, from 500 locations in the country. Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday said at a Network 18 programme that if Congress chief Rahul Gandhi had been a capable leader then sister Priyanka Gandhi would not have had to enter politics. "There has not been a single riot in the last two years since the BJP government came to power in the state," he also said. In its election manifesto, released on Tuesday, the MK Stalin-led Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam said it will try to release all seven of the convicts incarcerated for the assassination of former prime minister Rajiv Gandhi. The Congress has released its fifth list of 56 candidates for the Lok Sabha election, including 22 from Andhra Pradesh and 11 from West Bengal. The list, released late on Monday night, also included eight candidates from Telangana, six from Odisha, five from Assam and three from Uttar Pradesh. Former minister Priya Ranjan Dasmunsi's wife Deepa Dasmunshi has been fielded from Raiganj close on the heels of speculation that she was leaving for the BJP. As many as seven Telugu Desam Party MLAs have defected to the Telangana Rashtra Samithi in Telangana. Another has said he will join TRS. Three more Congress MLAs, all veteran Congress leaders, could move to the TRS as well, reported News18. The Congress has alleged horse-trading by the TRS and has asked for a meeting with the Telangana governor. The Congress has also demanded that Telangana come under President's rule, as they are in the risk of losing their key opposition leaders. Telugu Desam Party (TDP) has released its third list of 36 candidates for the upcoming elections to the Andhra Pradesh legislative assembly. The election will be held on 11 April. As the BJP readies its battle plan for the Lok Sabha elections, its first list of candidates is expected to be released on Tuesday, after the Central Election Committee of the party holds a meeting in the evening. Congress president Rahul Gandhi will address an election rally at Itanagar in Arunachal Pradesh and a Pradesh Congress meeting at the Manipur capital of Imphal on Tuesday. He will address a public meeting at the Indira Gandhi Park grounds in the Arunachal capital and will then hold a meeting with party leaders and workers at Hotel Donyi Polo Ashok. Later in the afternoon, he will travel to the Manipur Pradesh Congress Committee office at Imphal, for another meeting with party officials. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Monday started her election campaign in eastern Uttar Pradesh as she visited the ghats of Ganga river in Varansi in the morning. She is set to sail from Prayagraj to Varanasi as Congress plans to connect with the Mallah, Kewat and Nishad communities of boatmen, fishermen and agriculturalists living along the river. Priyanka said that Narendra Modi is travelling across the world, but he didn't come to his constituency. Did prime minister Modi come here, Priyanka asked the people as she stressed on her party's claim that the country and the constitution is in 'danger' under the BJP government. BJP president Amit Shah is slated to head a BJP Core Committee meeting on Sunday to finalise the party's list of candidates for the Lok Sabha election from Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Goa and Rajasthan. The ruling party is likely to release its first list of candidates on Monday. So far, main rival Congress has already released four lists of candidates for the upcoming Lok Sabha election, which begins from 11 April. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra is expected to kickoff her campaign for the upcoming Lok Sabha polls from eastern Uttar Pradesh, Prayagraj and Varanasi, taking the river route to establish "direct contact" with people. The Samajwadi Party on Saturday decided to field a sitting BJP MP from Allahabad Shyama Charan Gupta as its nominee from Banda Lok Sabha seat, PTI reported. Gupta, a leading businessman-turned-politician, was elected to the Lok Sabha from Banda parliamentary constituency in 2004 on a Samajwadi Party tickey. He fought from Phulpur in the 2009 general election, losing to his Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) counterpart. Senior BJP leader Bhuwan Chandra Khanduri's son, Manish Khanduri, joined the Congress on Saturday at a rally in Dehradun in the presence of party president Rahul Gandhi. Speculation is rife that the Congress might field Manish Khanduri from Pauri, a Lok Sabha seat held by his father. The Goa Congress on Saturday wrote to state governor Mridula Sinha, and called on her to dismiss the BJP-led government in the state. The Congress alleged that the BJP is a"minority", and has lost the trust of the people under Chief Minister Manohar Parrikar's rule. It further stated that "any attempt to bring Goa under President's rule will be illegal and will be challenged." Union Ministers Sushma Swaraj, Kiren Rijiju, and former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Saturday evening arrived at the BJP headquarters for the party's Central Election Committee (CEC) meeting. According to ANI, the CEC is expected to deliberate on candidates for Bihar, Uttarakhand, Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, Tripura, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Maharashtra, Jammu and Kashmir, as well as the Andaman and Nicobar islands, in its meeting today. Madhya Pradesh chief minister Kamal Nath on Saturday said if party colleague Digvijaya Singh wants to contest upcoming Lok Sabha polls, he should choose the "toughest seat" in the state. "I have requested Digvijaya Singh that if he wants to contest Lok Sabha polls, then he should do so from the toughest seat. There are 2-3-4 seats from where we have not won elections since the last 30-35 years," Nath told reporters. Congress functionaries said he may have been referring to Bhopal and Indore Lok Sabha seats, both of which have been held by the BJP since 1989. Congress sources said Nath is keen that Singh contest from Bhopal. Former IAS officer Shah Faesal will launch his political outfit 'Jammu and Kashmir People's Movement' at a function in Rajbagh area of the city on Sunday. He said the function will be held at Gindun Ground in Rajbagh. In a stream of criticism against Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Congress president Rahul Gandhi during his rally in Dehradun said he will visit the families of the CRPF jawans who died in the Pulwama terror attack in February and slammed Modi for "filming for the National Geographic Channel at Corbett Park". Rahul said, "I will be visiting the Pulwama martyrs' families today. When the terror attack took place, Congress party cancelled all political programmes and vowed to stand with our Armed Forces and the government." Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Saturday during a rally in Uttarakhand's Dehradun slammed Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the Rafale issue. Rahul said, "In Parliament, I questioned Mr. Modi on the Rafale scam. Why was Anil Ambani given the deal? Why did you steal the job opportunities from our youth? Mr. Narendra Modi could not meet my eyes." Rahul's comments came soon after BJP leader BC Khanduri's son Manish quit the BJP and joined the Congress. He said, "Khanduriji was the Chairman of Parliament's Defence Committee. He was removed from the position by Narendra Modi, because he raised concerns in the Parliament on national security. There is no place for truth in BJP." Senior BJP leader and former Uttarakhand chief minister BC Khanduri's son Manish Khanduri joined the Congress on Saturday at a rally in the presence of party president Rahul Gandhi. Welcoming him into the party fold, Gandhi said him joining the Congress will strengthen the party. Speculation is rife that the Congress might field Manish Khanduri from Pauri, a Lok Sabha seat held by his father. The former chief minister was removed last year as chairman of the parliamentary standing committee on defence. Senior BJP leader and Allahabad MP Shyama Charan Gupta resigned on Saturday and joined Akhilesh Yadav-led Samajwadi Party (SP). He is set to contest the Lok Sabha election as an SP candidate from the Banda constituency in Uttar Pradesh. Gupta is also likely to pose a challenge to the Congress in-charge for eastern Uttar Pradesh, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra. The Congress has not announced their candidate for the constituency, yet. The BJP is likely to release its first list of candidates for the Lok Sabha polls on Saturday, when its central election committee is scheduled to meet. The list will have the names of most of the candidates for the first phase of polling, which will be held on 11 April in 91 seats. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, party president Amit Shah and other top Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders will attend the central election committee meeting. Lok Sabha elections will begin on 11 April and continue for over a month till 19 May across seven phases, followed by counting of votes on 23 May, the Election Commission announced Sunday, kick-starting a mega electoral battle where the BJP will pitch for a re-election of the Modi government amid the Opposition's efforts for a united fight to unseat it. The polling will be held on 11 April, 18 April, 23 April, 29 April, 6 May, 12 May and 19 May for 543 Lok Sabha seats across the country in which nearly 90 crore voters would be eligible to vote, Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora said. Assembly elections will also be held in Andhra Pradesh, Sikkim, Arunachal Pradesh and Odisha simultaneously with the Lok Sabha polls, the CEC said. However, elections for Jammu and Kashmir assembly have been deferred, the EC said citing security reasons. The state has been under President's Rule after the ruling alliance between the BJP and Peoples Democratic Party fell apart last year. Political parties and leaders have already began campaigning for the big finals, even as preparations for this very battle has been for the past two years when state elections were being touted as "semi-finals". Just like 2014, two candidates have surfaced as the face of this fight — Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Congress chief Rahul Gandhi — the two opposing camps are rallying behind these two. However, there are other contenders to Rahul, like West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, former Uttar Pradesh chief ministers Akhilesh Yadav and Mayawati and Andhra Pradesh chief minister Chandrababu Naidu. Election Commission has officially opened the battlegrounds and in the coming days we will track campaign rallies, sloganeering, advertisements, social media and television debates — anything which is consequential for the upcoming polls — to make it easy to navigate through all the politicking  which is expected before 23 May. Here are a few things to note after EC's date announcements:  All southern states will have voted by the third phase, 23 April. But West Bengal (42 seats), Madhya Pradesh (29 seats), Bihar (40 seats) and, crucially, Uttar Pradesh (80 seats) vote over several phases that carry on until the very last day of voting, 19 May. This means that the famous 'hawa', political chatter that suggests which way the wind is blowing, will continue to build until the very last date.  Mamata commenced her party's campaign for the 2014 parliamentary and 2016 assembly elections on International Women's Day, 8 March, and this time was no different. She led a padyatra (rally) in Kolkata on the occasion. The TMC, which is vying to play a major role in the formation of the next government at the Centre, has vowed to win all the 42 Lok Sabha seats in the state. The party had won 34 seats in the 2014 general election. However, the BJP state leadership mocked TMC's decision to kick start its poll campaign on International Women's day. Meanwhile, Rahul kicked off the Congress' poll campaign in Assam. The Congress scion attacked the BJP and the RSS, accusing them of "burning" every state in the region. "The BJP-RSS ideology is burning every state in the northeast. They are attacking your lifestyle, culture, language and history," he said. Gandhi exuded confidence that the Congress will come to power at the Centre and work towards protecting the identity of the region. He has since addressed a rally in Karnataka's Haveri on 9 March. Prime Minister Narendra Modi kick-started the BJP's Lok Sabha campaign in Madhya Pradesh with rallies on 15 and 16 February. Despite suffering a major loss in the 2018 Assembly elections in Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh, and Madhya Pradesh, the BJP is hopeful to serve a second term at the Centre. The prime minister has been making public appearances across the nation. He visited Uttar Pradesh's Varanasi, Kanpur and Ghaziabad cities on 8 March. He also addressed a rally in Greater Noida on 9 March. Firstpost is now on WhatsApp. For the latest analysis, commentary and news updates, sign up for our WhatsApp services. Just go to Firstpost.com/Whatsapp and hit the Subscribe button. 
BSP leader and former MLA Chandra Prakash Mishra from Amethi joins BJP; he contested against Rahul Gandhi in 2004| New Delhi: Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) leader from Amethi and former MLA Chandra Prakash Mishra 'Matiyari' on Wednesday joined the BJP and said he would work to ensure the defeat of Congress president Rahul Gandhi from his Lok Sabha constituency.  He joined the party in the presence of Union ministers J P Nadda and Smriti Irani, with Irani expressing hope that Mishra's presence in the BJP will help it win from Amethi. The BJP is likely to field Irani against Rahul from Amethi. She had put up a spirited fight against him in 2014 but had lost. Mishra, a Brahmin face from the region, had been with the BSP for last 22 years and had contested Lok Sabha election in 2004 from Amethi against Rahul. "Amethi remains under slavery and I will ensure that it tastes freedom," Mishra told reporters. The constituency has been a pocket borough of the Ganndhi family for decades. In 2007, Mishra won the assembly election from Gauriganj seat in the Gandhi family bastion. Polling in Uttar Pradesh's 80 Lok Sabha seats will be held in seven phases starting from 11 April. The voting will end on 19 May, which is the final date of polling. Firstpost is now on WhatsApp. For the latest analysis, commentary and news updates, sign up for our WhatsApp services. Just go to Firstpost.com/Whatsapp and hit the Subscribe button. 
Bihar mahagathbandhan seat-sharing agreement for Lok Sabha polls will be announced after Holi, says Tejashwi Yadav| Patna: Amid reports of ongoing tussle between Congress and RJD over seat sharing in Bihar, RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav on Wednesday said that the Bihar "Mahagathbandhan" (grand alliance) is 'intact' and formal announcement of seat sharing arrangement among the allies would be made after the Holi. "The Mahagathbandhan is intact and strong and who will contest from where and the Lok Sabha constituencies will be announced formally after Holi. There is nothing to worry, and all is fine in the alliance," said Tejashwi Yadav.  Sharad Yadav of Lok Jantantrik Party said formal seat sharing announcement for the Lok Sabha elections in Bihar will be made on 22 March. "Mahagathbandhan will do a press conference in Patna on 22 March to formally announce the seat sharing in Bihar," said Sharad Yadav. "Talks regarding the seat sharing in Mahagathbandhan has almost been finalised. I only intervene if they need my help, else the people from the Congress and RJD are largely involved in the talks and settle it among themselves," said Sharad Yadav. The issue of alliance between Congress and RJD has been dragging for some time as RJD is not ready to give more than eight Lok Sabha seats to Congress which had already announced its candidates on 11 seats for the ensuing polls, sources said on Sunday. The grand alliance formed by the Opposition in Bihar includes the RJD Congress, Rashtriya Lok Samta Party (RLSP), Hindustani Awam Morcha (HAM), Lok Jantrantrik Dal (LJD) and Vikas Sheel Insaan Party (VIP). Bihar will go to polls in all the seven phases on 11, 18, 23 and 29 April and 6, 12 and 19 May. The results would be announced on 23 May. Firstpost is now on WhatsApp. For the latest analysis, commentary and news updates, sign up for our WhatsApp services. Just go to Firstpost.com/Whatsapp and hit the Subscribe button. 
Despite CPI backing Kanhaiya Kumar for Begusarai, ex-student leader's political prospects dim without grand alliance support| The delay and differences in reaching out an agreement over seat-sharing among the partners of the ‘grand alliance’ in Bihar have considerably diminished the prospects of former Jawaharlal Nehru University Student Union (JNUSU) president Kanhaiya Kumar in the upcoming Lok Sabha election. Kumar, who shot to fame following his arrest in February 2016 for allegedly raising anti-national slogan at JNU campus, was hoping to be fielded as a ‘grand alliance’ candidate on Communist Party of India (CPI) ticket, which along with Rashtriya Lok Samata Party, Vikassheel Insaan Party, Hindustani Awam Party and Loktantrik Party is part of the ‘grand alliance’.  While the deadlock over the number of seats is likely to be resolved and the final announcement regarding the seat-sharing arrangement might be made today, what is amply clear is that Kumar will not be fielded as the alliance candidate which would have considerably strengthen his prospects of winning the seat from Begusarai, which is referred as Bihar’s Leningrad, where the Left has a stronghold in certain Assembly segments since the 1960s and is and also Kumar's hometown. While Kumar is all set to foray into electoral politics with CPI making it clear that it will “with or without the support of the grand alliance” field the former JNUSU president from Begusarai, the equation would be completely different if he would get the support of RJD and Congress, the most important alliance partners. The fact that Kumar has been denied the support of the ‘grand alliance’ shall benefit Union Minister and incumbent Nawada MP Giriraj Singh, who has been asked to contest from Begusarai this time. Kumar contesting as ‘grand alliance’ candidate would have posed a serious challenge to Singh.  The reason for Kumar’s loss is the veto made by RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav who wants Tanveer Hasan, who lost marginally from Begusarai in the 2014 Lok Sabha polls, to be fielded as the ‘grand alliance’ candidate and was reportedly upset over CPI’s insistence on fielding the former JNUSU president from Begusarai. Hasan, who is close to Yadav family and a loyalist for years, is also popular in Begusarai. He holds a good image among the people, thus increasing the prospects of his winnability. However, the Left has its own reasons to back Kumar. Begusarai is Kumar’s home constituency and he belongs to the Bhumihar, an upper caste, that has a sizeable presence of over three lakhs in this constituency. Kumar, who was accused of sedition and jailed for 20 days in March 2016, had become an instant ‘national hero’ after his release and was lauded for his oratory skills. CPI is relying on these factors in fielding Kumar and in assessing his winnability. However, there are fractions in the Left, working at the ground level, who are not happy with Kumar’s candidature as they see him as an ‘outsider’ who has been parachuted from the top and has no ground experience. While uncertainty prevails over Kumar’s electoral career, another JNU student leader Shehla Rashid, a former JNUSU vice president, recently made her foray into active politics by joining the Jammu and Kashmir Peoples' Movement, launched by former IAS officer Shah Faesal. Rashid led the protest movement after Kumar’s arrest in 2016 and is a staunch critic of the Narendra Modi government. Both Kumar and Rashid, on multiple occasions have denied intentions to join electoral politics and instead focus on their academics. But, as the Lok Sabha election approached both the student leaders made intelligent calculations to opt for the best political party that suits their interests. Kumar chose CPI, which is close to the student organisation All India Students Federation (AISF) on whose ticket he had won the JNUSU election in 2015, becoming first AISF cadre to win the post. On the other hand, Rashid who was member of All India Students Association (AISA), the student wing of the Communist Party of India (Marxist–Leninist) Liberation choose to join Faesal’s party that is been anticipated to emerge as a major player in the politics of Jammu and Kashmir in the coming years. In 2016, Kumar shot to fame because he had the support of all Left parties in JNU, in spite of the fact that some of them were vowed adversaries. It was an "attack on the campus" sort of narrative that led to this wider consensus. But, far from the idealism of campus activism, the terrain of electoral politics are usually so uneven that forging a consensus for support is not easy and often shoots surprises. Kumar understands this, hence he has refrained from making any comments that can hamper his political prospects. Kumar's political prospects significantly depend upon the fact whether or not he will finally succeed in winning the support of the 'grand alliance' as over the years the support base of CPI has eroded considerably and winning alone on CPI ticket will be tough for Kumar. Whether or not Kumar will get the support of the 'grand alliance' will be made clear today. Whatever the result may be the fact remains is that Kumar has made his choices like an astute politician by seeking to contest under the patronage of an alliance that has arithmetic on its side. Firstpost is now on WhatsApp. For the latest analysis, commentary and news updates, sign up for our WhatsApp services. Just go to Firstpost.com/Whatsapp and hit the Subscribe button. 
Lok Sabha Election 2019, Chhattisgarh profile: Congress seeks to repeat Assembly poll performance to pip BJP in Maoist-hit state| Formed in the year 2000 after separation from Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh has 11 parliamentary constituencies and 90 Assembly constituencies. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) holds all but one parliamentary seat in the state. Durg is the only seat held by Congress. Rich in coal mines, the state is home to 16 percent of the total coal deposits of the country, according to official figures. An estimated 44,483 million tonnes coal is mined from the 12 coalfields of Chhattisgarh in Raigarh, Surguja, Koriya and Korba districts. In terms of coal production, the state ranks second, contributing over 18 percent to the total national production.  Thirty percent of the state’s population belong to Scheduled Tribes and 12.8 percent belong to Scheduled Castes. An overwhelming 76.8 percent live in rural areas. According to the Forest Survey of India (2009), 41.33 percent of the state’s geographical area is covered in forests. The state is also one of the worst-affected by Maoists in the country. In the 2018 Assembly election, Congress knocked off the ruling BJP in the state elections and won 68 out of 90 seats. The former chief minister and BJP leader Raman Singh took responsibility for the defeat and resigned. The grand old party is likely to ride on last year’s feat in the upcoming Lok Sabha elections. 1. Bastar Lok Sabha Constituency Constituency number: 10 Total electors: 12,98,083 (2014 estimates) Female electors: 6,65,237 Male electors: 6,32,749 Reserved: Yes. For Scheduled Tribes. Delimited: Yes. Until 1999, Bastar was a reserved constituency in Madhya Pradesh. After the formation of Chhattisgarh in 2000, it became a part of the state. In 2008, Bhanpuri and Keslur Assembly constituencies were removed and Naranpur and Bastar were added into the Bastar constituency. Assembly Constituencies: Kondagaon, Narayanpur(ST), Bastar(ST), Jagdalpur, Chitrakote(ST), Dantewada(ST), Bijapur(ST), Konta(ST) Results in last four Lok Sabha elections: In 1999, when it was a part of Madhya Pradesh, the Bastar constituency was held by BJP candidate Baliram Kashyap. He continued to hold sway over the constituency even after the state of Chhattisgarh was formed. He was re-elected MP in 2004 and 2009. After his death in 2011, his son Dinesh was elected MP in the by-elections. Dinesh was re-elected in the 2014 General Elections.  Demographics: There are 14,13,199 people living in Bastar, according to Census 2011 data. Almost 70 percent of the total population in Bastar come are from tribal communities such as Gond, Maria, Muriya, Bhatra, Halba, Dhruva community. Rich in iron-one, mining is one of the major activities in the region. In 2008 Tata Steel had acquired land for setting a 5.5 million tonne steel factory. However, following protests, in 2016, Tata Steel withdrew from the project. In December 2018, the newly appointed Congress government started the process for returning the land to tribals. In February this year, Congress chief Rahul Gandhi handed over ownership certificates to people. This is likely to sway votes in favour of Congress in the Maoist-affected constituency which has otherwise remained loyal to the BJP. 2. Bilaspur Lok Sabha Constituency Constituency number: 5 Total electors: 17,29,229 (2014 estimates) Female electors: 8,37,724 Male electors: 8,90,891 Reserved: No Delimited: Yes. Until 2008 Bilaspur was an Assembly segment of Hamirpur constituency. Assembly Constituencies: Kota, Takhatpur, Beltara, Lormi, Bilha, Masturi (SC), Mungeli (SC), Bilaspur Results in last four Lok Sabha elections: In 2009, Dilip Singh Judev won the General Election and became the first MP from this constituency. BJP’s Lakhan Lal Sahu won the 2014 elections. Demographics: Bilaspur has a population of 19,61,922, and only 31.3 percent live in urban areas. It has a sizeable tribal population as 19.6 percent belong to scheduled tribes. Of the total population, 13.8 percent belong to Scheduled Castes, according to Census 2011. In the last General Election, former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s niece Karuna Shukla contested the elections with a Congress ticket from this constituency and lost with a huge margin of over one lakh votes. 3. Janjgir-Champa Lok Sabha Constituency Constituency number: 3 Total electors: 17,44,201 (2014 estimates) Female electors: 8,47,967 Male electors: 8,95,524 Reserved: Yes. For Scheduled Castes Delimited: Yes. In 2008, the Janjgir constituency became Janjgir-Champa constituency. The Rampur, Katghora, Tanakhar, Sipat and Champa Assembly constituencies ceased to exist. Assembly Constituencies: Akaltara, Chandrapur, Bilaigarh (SC), Janjgir-Champa, Jaijaipur, Kasdol, Sakti, Pamgarh (SC) Results in last four Lok Sabha elections: When it was a part of Madhya Pradesh in 1999, the constituency had elected Congress candidate Charandas Mahant to power. In 2004, BJP candidate Karuna Shukla won the election. Kamaladevi Patle from the BJP won the seat in 2009 and 2014. Demographics: There are 16,19,707 people living in Janjgir-Champa district, of whom 86.1 percent live in rural areas, according to the 2011 Census. The constituency has a sizeable population belonging to scheduled castes (24.6 percent). Congress is fielding party leader Parasram Bharadwaj’s son from this constituency. Meanwhile, BJP is gearing up for its fourth win in the constituency. 4. Kanker Lok Sabha Constituency Constituency number: 11 Total electors: 14,48,375 (2014 estimates) Female electors: 7,25,171 Male electors: 7,21,936 Reserved: Yes. For Scheduled Tribes Delimited: Yes. In 2008, the Gunderdehi and Kanker Assembly constituencies were merged. Sanjari was merged with Balod and Narayanpur constituency was dissolved. Assembly Constituencies: Sihawa (ST), Gunderdehi Kanker (ST), Sanjari Balod, Antagarh (ST), Keshkal (ST), Dondi Lohara (ST), Bhanupratappur (ST) Results in last four Lok Sabha elections: In 1999, Sohan Potai from BJP was elected MP from Kanker, when it was a part of Madhya Pradesh. In 2004, Potai again won a majority from the constituency when the state of Chhattisgarh came into place and continued to win in 2009. In 2014, BJP candidate Vikram Usendi was elected MP. Demographics: The Uttar Bastar Kanker district of Chhattisgarh is inhabited by 7,48,941 people, 55.38 percent of whom belong to Scheduled Tribes. Most of them—89 percent—live in rural areas. People depend on agriculture and mining in the discontinuous hills of the region. The constituency has remained loyal to the BJP since 1999. 5. Korba Lok Sabha Constituency Constituency number: 4 Total electors: 14,23,729 (2014 estimates)  Female electors: 6,93,610 Male electors: 7,29,701 Reserved: No Delimited: Yes. The constituency came into existence in 2008. Assembly Constituencies: Bharatpur-Sonhat (ST), Rampur (ST), Pali-Tanakhar (ST), Manendragarh, Korba, Marwahi (ST), Baikunthpur, Katghora Results in last four Lok Sabha elections: In 2009, Charandas Mahant from Congress, who was MP from Janjgir-Champa in 2004, was elected MP from here. Banshilal Mahto from BJP won the seat in 2014 with a margin of 4,265 votes. Demographics: As per the 2011 census, Korba has a population of 12,06,640 people and 37 percent of them live in urban areas. People belonging to the scheduled tribes constitute 40.9 percent of the population. According to the government of Chhattisgarh, the Korba district is an agriculture belt where over 68 percent residents are engaged in farming. The main crop sown is paddy. The district is also known as the coal hub of the state. The Korba coalfield is one of the largest coal contributors in the country. 6. Mahasamund Lok Sabha Constituency Constituency number: 9 Total electors: 15,16,177 (2014 estimates) Female electors: 7,58,372 Male electors: 7,57,434 Reserved: No Delimited: No Assembly Constituencies: Saraipali (SC), Mahasamund, Kurud, Basna, Rajim, Dhamtari, Khallari, Bindranawagarh (ST) Results in last four Lok Sabha elections: In 1999 elections, Shyama Charan Shukla from Congress won the election when the constituency was part of Madhya Pradesh. In 2004, Ajit Jogi from Congress became the first MP from this constituency after it became a part of Chhattisgarh. In 2009 and 2014, BJP candidate Chandulal Sahu was elected MP. Demographics: Mahasamund has a population of 10,32,754, mostly rural (89 percent), according to Census 2011. Lying on the border of Odisha, this Congress bastion was lost to BJP in 2009. Congress heavyweight in the state Vidya Charan Shukla has been elected from this constituency six times. 7. Raigarh Lok Sabha Constituency Constituency number: 2 Total electors: 16,26,949 (2014 estimates) Female electors: 8,07,437 Male electors: 8,18,167 Reserved: Yes. For Scheduled Tribes. Delimited: Yes. In 2008, the Bagicha and Tapkara Assembly constituencies were replaced by Kunkuri segment. Assembly Constituencies: Jashpur Nagar (ST), Lailunga (ST), Kharsia, Kunkuri (ST), Raigarh, Dharamjaigarh (ST), Pathalgaon (ST), Sarangarh (SC) Results in last four Lok Sabha elections: In 1999, as part of Madhya Pradesh, this constituency elected Vishnudeo Sai from BJP. Sai continued to win a majority in the 2004 election. In 2009 as well as 2014 elections, Sai continued to enjoy majority votes. Demographics: Spread over the Jashpur and Raigarh districts, the constituency houses power plants, steel plants as well as jute mills. According to official data from the Chhattisgarh government, the primary economy of the Raigarh district is agriculture and mining. Jashpur has almost 42 percent of forest cover on its geographical area and hence, forestry activities and forest produce collection have been its traditional economic activity. While Jashpur has a population of 8,51,669,  Raigarh has a population of 26,34,200. 8. Raipur Lok Sabha Constituency Constituency number: 8 Total electors: 19,04,460 (2014 estimates) Female electors: 9,24,453 Male electors: 9,79,107 Reserved: No Delimited: Yes. In 2008, the Raipur town Assembly constituency was divided into South, West and North constituencies. Mandirhasod Assembly constituency was dissolved. Assembly Constituencies: Baloda Bazar, Raipur Rural, Raipur City South, Bhatapara, Raipur City West, Arang (SC), Dharsiwa, Raipur City North, Abhanpur Results in last four Lok Sabha elections: In 1999, Ramesh Bais from BJP held the constituency when it was a part of Madhya Pradesh. After the division of Chhattisgarh, too, Bais continued to be elected MP from the constituency in 2004, 2009 and 2014 elections. Demographics:  The capital of Chhattisgarh, Raipur has a population of 40,63,872, of which 36.5 percent live in urban areas. The constituency is spread across areas that are suitable for growing paddy. It has been a BJP bastion since 1996. Raipur is also being developed as a smart city. The district is surrounded by Maoist-affected regions. 9. Rajnandgaon Lok Sabha Constituency Constituency number: 6 Total electors: 15,91,373 (2014 estimates) Female electors: 7,93,838 Male electors: 7,97,222 Reserved: No Delimited: Yes. In 2008, the Chowki and Birandranagar Assembly segments were replaced by Pandariya and Mohla-Manpur segments. Assembly Constituencies: Pandariya, Dongargarh (SC), Khujji, Kawardha, Rajnandgaon, Mohla-Manpur (ST), Khairagarh, Dongargaon Results in last four Lok Sabha elections: In 1999, Raman Singh from BJP won the election. In 2004, Pradeep Gandhi, also from BJP, won the election. Madhusudan Yadav from BJP was elected MP in 2009 elections. BJP candidate Abhishek Singh won the election in 2014. Demographics: The constituency is spread over Rajnandgaon and Kabirdham districts. The constituency holds importance as it had catapulted former MP Raman Singh to the position of chief minister. The seat is currently held by his son Abhishek Singh. Rajnandgaon district has a population of 15,37,133 and a majority of them depend on agriculture, according to the Chhattisgarh government. The region is rich in the deposit of limestone and has several extraction and mining industries. Kabirdham has a population of 8,22,526. 10. Surguja Lok Sabha Constituency Constituency number: 1 Total electors: 15,23,022 (2014 estimates) Female electors: 751,835 Male electors: 770,954 Reserved: Yes. For Scheduled Tribes Delimited: Yes. Ramanujganj, Bhatgaon and Pratappur assembly segments were added to this constituency in 2008. Baikunthpur, Surajpur, Pal and Pilkha segments were dissolved. Assembly Constituencies: Premnagar, Ramanujganj (ST), Ambikapur, Bhatgaon, Samri (ST), Sitapur (ST), Pratappur (ST), Lundra (ST) Results in last four Lok Sabha elections: In 1999, Congress candidate Khel Sai Singh won the election. Nand Kumar Sai from BJP won the election in 2004. Murarilal Singh, also from BJP, won the election in 2009. Kamalbhan Singh Marabi, a BJP candidate, was elected MP from this constituency in 2014. Demographics: Lying along the Jharkhand border, the Surguja district has a population of 23,61,329. Agriculture is the major form of economy in this district. This constituency has been a stronghold of BJP since 2004 but Congress is eager to make a comeback, especially after its win in the 2018 Vidhan Sabha elections. The grand old party has nominated tribal leader Khel Sai Singh from this constituency. 11. Durg Lok Sabha Constituency Constituency number: 7 Total electors: 18,58,922 (2014 estimates) Female electors: 9,09,476 Male electors: 9,48,077 Reserved: No Delimited: Yes. The Durg Assembly constituency was broken into rural and city constituencies in 2008. Mora, Dhamdha and Khertha segments were dissolved and Vaishali Nagar, Ahiwara and Nawagarh were added. Assembly Constituencies: Patan, Bhilai Nagar, Saja, Durg Rural, Vaishali Nagar, Bemetara, Durg City, Ahiwara (SC), Nawagarh (SC) Results in last four Lok Sabha elections: In 1999, BJP candidate Tara Chand Sahu won a majority when the constituency was a part of Madhya Pradesh. Sahu repeated his feat in the 2004 elections when Chhattisgarh had been separated from Madhya Pradesh. In the 2009 election, Saroj Pandey from BJP won the election. In 2014, Congress candidate Tamradhwaj Sahu was elected as an MP from here. Demographics: Home to the Bhilai steel plant, Durg is also an important agriculture market in the state. It is the only seat currently held by Congress. MP Tamradhwaj Sahu became the home minister of the state after the state elections in 2018. He, then, resigned from his position as MP and the seat is currently vacant. Durg has a population of 1,721,948, according to the Census 2011, of which 64 percent lives in urban areas. Firstpost is now on WhatsApp. For the latest analysis, commentary and news updates, sign up for our WhatsApp services. Just go to Firstpost.com/Whatsapp and hit the Subscribe button. 
Investigation in election-related matters purview of Election Commission: AAP-BJP friction exposes lack of faith in autonomous body| A delegation led by Union Minister Vijay Goel called on the Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora and submitted a memorandum alleging that the Aam Aadmi Party's government was misusing its official position. The delegation accused AAP workers of making phone calls to voters stating that their names had been deleted from the voter's list and that they (AAP) can help voters get their names restored. AAP's version is that the BJP got more than 30 lakh voters' names deleted in Delhi and hence it started talking about this issue and hired a call centre to inform voters about it. AAP alleged that this is what led the BJP to order the Delhi Police to harass the call centre employees. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted:  Why is CEC raiding our call centres and asking for our data? What is our crime? Pl tell our crime at least. https://t.co/uaECjjAxRh — Arvind Kejriwal (@ArvindKejriwal) March 15, 2019 // <![CDATA[ <script> // ]]> Speaking to Firstpost, senior AAP leader Sanjay Singh said that the raids were being conducted by the state police that is controlled by the Centre. "How can the police raid our call centres and demand our data? They are influencing our campaign. How are the crime branch and police getting even involved?" he asked. Singh questioned the reason why no action wasn't being taken by the CEC instead and accused the BJP for drumming up a list of 70 complaints by its own people against AAP.  Manoj Tiwari, Delhi BJP head, told Firstpost that Kejriwal is making his disrespect for constitutional mechanisms evident by taking this stand. The Election Commission of India has asserted that the local state police and Central paramilitary forces come under its superintendence and control during the elections for all purposes. Once the complaint has been registered with the CEC, it is their decision on what action they like to take against the agency. Given the nature of the case, which involved phone calls and mass data collection, senior police officials might have deputed the crime branch to exercise its specialised skills. No arrests were made. In other states, politicisation of the state police becomes an issue around election time and central forces are deputed to keep a check. In Delhi, the police is controlled by the Centre. However, when a complaint is registered with an authorised body, there is nothing illegal about referring the case to the local police. Going beyond the incident, the purpose of the Model Code of Conduct is to be able to keep a check on the party in power, because it is that party which can misuse administrative machinery for political gain. The Election Commission is well within its rights to investigate complaints from Opposition parties and since Kejriwal tweeted to the CEC, a dispassionate analysis to the political tussle between the BJP and AAP becomes essential. During the recent state elections in Chhattisgarh, a senior IAS officer was appointed as a special observer. On condition of anonymity, he shared an incident with Firstpost regarding a vehicle distributing campaign material to voters, less than 48 hours before polling. "The Election Commission ordered the Sub-Divisional Magistrate to look for that vehicle and when it was found, the material was confiscated," he said, explaining that raising a complaint is bona fide right of political parties. AAP has held a sit-in protest out the Election Commission office against Delhi Police over allegedly harassing call centre employees hired by their party and demanded action from the poll panel. A delegation led by Manish Sisodia, comprising senior leaders like Singh and party’s Lok Sabha candidates Raghav Chadha and Atishi, reached the CEC’s office and alleged that the police has been conducting searches at AAP’s call centres at the behest of the BJP. Unlike the lack of jurisdiction over the municipality and the state police, which can become a subject of political contest between the BJP and AAP, this particular issue centres around the constitutional powers of an autonomous body that has a long history of keeping parties in check. One year etched in the story of that history is 1971, when freedom fighter Raj Narain contested in the Lok Sabha election against the then prime minister Indira Gandhi from the Rae Bareilly seat. Gandhi was re-elected by a two-to-one margin. With his election petition, Narain had summoned the state government of Uttar Pradesh before the Allahabad High Court to produce a document called the Blue Book that contained instructions for the protection of the Prime Minister of India when on a tour or in travel. The government officials refused to produce the document, citing Section 123 of the Evidence Act in which it is stated that ‘no one shall be permitted to give any evidence derived from unpublished official records relating to any affair of State except with the permission of the Officer at the Head of the Department concerned who shall give or withhold such permission as he thinks fit.’ The central government of the time failed to file an affidavit to claim such privilege. The high court hence ordered the production of the Blue Book, mainly for the government’s failure in claiming its privilege under Section 123 (imposes the obligation on the government to timely claim such privilege in an affidavit). The Supreme Court of India held that the court had the discretion of drawing inference from non-filing of an affidavit that no privilege was claimed and that it enjoyed the judicial authority ‘to look to the document itself and take a decision’. The Supreme Court also noted that under Section 162 of the Evidence Act, an objection to disclosure of a privileged government record ‘should be filed on the date which is fixed for the production of document so that the Court may decide the validity of such objection.’ Right after the sweeping victory of the Indira Gandhi government, on 12 June 1975, The High Court of Allahabad found Indira Gandhi guilty of misusing government machinery under the The Representation of People Act, 1951, which meant that she could no longer continue to serve as the Prime Minister. She appealed in the Supreme Court but it was on vacation. Thereafter, a state of emergency was declared by the then President Fakrudeen Ali Ahmad citing internal disturbance. The politicisation of the state police is a separate issue and the assumption of that politicisation, be it in the manhandling of its people by authorities or the motive of accessing the election data, isn’t reason enough to question the motives of the CEC. Firstpost is now on WhatsApp. For the latest analysis, commentary and news updates, sign up for our WhatsApp services. Just go to Firstpost.com/Whatsapp and hit the Subscribe button. 
Lok Sabha election 2019: BJP likely to announce first list of candidates after CEC meeting in Delhi today| New Delhi: The BJP's central election committee (CEC), which is scheduled to meet on Wednesday evening as part of its deliberations to finalise candidates for the Lok Sabha election, is expected to release the first set of nominees after the meeting, party sources said.  This will be the third meeting of the CEC, BJP's highest decision-making body, over the selection of candidates. On Tuesday evening, it had held a seven-hour-long discussion to deliberate upon the names of party's candidates in various states. The meeting, besides Prime Minister Narendra Modi, was attended by top brass of the BJP, including party chief Amit Shah, Rajnath Singh, Sushma Swaraj and Arun Jaitley. The sources said the party is expected to release its first list of candidates Wednesday evening. The CEC has already held wide-ranging discussions on the selection of its candidates for Bihar, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Chattisgarh and all eight north-eastern states. Though the Congress has announced candidates for 146 Lok Sabha constituencies so far, the BJP is yet to officially make any announcement on its nominees. Sources in the party suggested that most of the ministers in the Union Cabinet, who are sitting Lok Sabha MPs, are likely to be fielded from same seats. On Tuesday, the party had announced that it will drop its all 10 incumbent MPs from Chhattisgarh and replace them with new faces, a decision that comes in the wake of the party's drubbing in the 2018 Assembly elections. Firstpost is now on WhatsApp. For the latest analysis, commentary and news updates, sign up for our WhatsApp services. Just go to Firstpost.com/Whatsapp and hit the Subscribe button. 
In blog, Narendra Modi hits out at Congress over press freedom, gives kettle room to launch counterattack on pot| Election season is upon us and that means parties and politicians are gearing up — if not already doing so — to take a break from year-long campaigning and mudslinging and put all their energies into Lok Sabha election campaigning and mudslinging. It's a bit like the normal variety, only with the volume and shrillness turned up all the way to 11. As such there will be louder rallies, more acerbic turns of prose and generally a more angry and almost-tribal atmosphere that envelopes the country. And so, it won't be unusual to see party members and leaders turn into prolific orators, champion writers, flowery poets and keen distributors of witty social media content. Every word will travel that much further, because it's the quinquennial Lok Sabha election season. The Opposition, ranging from the Congress' sibling tag team of Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi to Aam Aadmi Party's Arvind Kejriwal, Trinamool Congress' Mamata Banerjee and numerous others, have spared very few opportunities to lambast the ruling party, its ideological fountainhead and the prime minister. And this hasn't been one-way traffic either, with the BJP and its allies hitting out at the constituents of the Opposition 'mahagathbandhan' and the Congress in particular. Same old same old, you may well conclude. You would be wrong. This is after all Lok Sabha election season and all stops must be pulled out. It is perhaps this sentiment that saw Prime Minister Narendra Modi take to his admittedly under-utilised blog — that has previously been used for public service announcements, paying tribute and opining on projects and foreign visits — to hit out at the Congress in a post titled 'Institutional respect and Institutional contempt - two contrasting approaches'.  After listing how the country and presumably its prospects have changed since 2014, the blog entry notes, "Reflective of this paradigm shift is the fact that now, there is a government that puts institutions above everything else. India has seen that whenever dynastic politics has been powerful, institutions have taken a severe beating." If that sentence seems a bit odd, it's probably because it is, considering the government has been accused of meddling with the CBI, the Supreme Court, RBI and the RTI Act to name but a few. But then such trivial matters can easily be overlooked when there's a bigger point to be made or a more pressing target to aim for: That the word 'dynasty' or a variation of the word appears six times and Congress appears 24 times makes this amply clear. One of the biggest oversights is the section of the post titled 'Press and Expression'. Before getting to the contents of the section or indeed the part under the category 'Press', it's worth briefly recalling the dim view taken of the concept of 'Expression' by the ruling party and its bannermen, for want of a better word. Literature fests, art exhibitions and even cinema — there's hardly an aspect of expression that hasn't seen efforts to control and reshape it. "Dynastic parties have never been comfortable with a free and vibrant press... Speaking truth to power, which is the hallmark of a free press was seen as vulgar and indecent," the post states. The raids against NDTV, the ABP News episode, the demise of Hindustan Times' Hate Tracker and the financial strangling of Amnesty India are a handful of examples of what 'speaking truth to power' apparently gets you in today's India. Further, that this remark comes from a prime minister who has yet to hold a press conference since taking office and only appears to answer questions that are scripted or posed by 'pliant journalists' seems somewhat strange. "The recent UPA years saw the bringing of a law that could land you in prison for posting anything 'offensive'... A tweet against the son of a powerful UPA minister could land innocent citizens in jail," the blog entry continues. And that law seems to have been used to the fullest by the UPA's successor, as Huffington Post points out, against "teachers, students, businessmen, auto-rickshaw drivers, and members of the police and paramilitary forces". "Just a few days ago, the nation watched with horror when a few youngsters were arrested for expressing their true feelings at a programme in Karnataka, where the Congress is sharing power," the post carries on, championing the cause of free will and true feelings. Are some feelings more true than others? Or does it depend on whom those feelings are aimed at? While it was this section on 'Press and Expression' that took the cake, there were other interesting crumbs scattered elsewhere. Most notably towards the end, where the post posits, "Are they [Congress] scared of accountability or do they not believe in it?". Curiously, in Gandhinagar on 5 March, Modi had himself taken a thinly-veiled swipe at the concept, stating, "There is a recent trend of people expecting that everything has to be done by the government. They also seek answers from the government for the works that are not done. This was not a tradition in our country." So what have we learned from Wednesday's blog entry by the prime minister? To somewhat mangle John F Kennedy's words: Ask not what your government can do for you. Ask nothing at all. Firstpost is now on WhatsApp. For the latest analysis, commentary and news updates, sign up for our WhatsApp services. Just go to Firstpost.com/Whatsapp and hit the Subscribe button. 
From Emergency to dynastic politics, Narendra Modi attacks Congress in blog: PM has given talking points to BJP cadres ahead of LS polls| Almost an hour after Prime Minister Narendra Modi's blog, which slams Congress' dynastic "family-first" politics, went online, former Union minister, senior advocate and Congress leader Kapil Sibal was ready with a counter-charge. Sibal said that Modi, too, is a dynast, so is Amit Shah, so are chief ministers of BJP-ruled states and host of Centre and state-level ministers. Sibal said, Sangh Parivar is the biggest dynasty in India and since all these leaders have had their rooting in the RSS, they all qualify to be dynasts.  Ironically, the accusation comes from a top ranking minister, who held portfolios of Law and Justice, Human Resource Development, Communication and Information Technology, Science and Technology and Earth Sciences during the UPA regime. Sibal also continues to be a close confidante of Congress chief Rahul Gandhi and UPA chairperson Sonia Gandhi. Another Congress leader Tariq Anwar argued that Modi's 'dynastic' jibe against Nehru-Gandhi family was manifestation of sour grapes scenario. Modi was slamming Congress over dynastic rule because prime minister himself did not have any lineage to boast about.  #WATCH Tariq Anwar, Congress on PM Modi's tweet, says, "Narendra Modi Ji is saying this as he does not come from a dynasty. How can one who who does not come from a dynasty say this? Tell me one profession where dynasty is not encouraged." pic.twitter.com/HHtjwXD12Z — ANI (@ANI) March 20, 2019 // <![CDATA[ <script> // ]]> Rahul Gandhi, addressing a rally at Imphal, questioned Modi's educational qualification.  Rahul Gandhi interacting with students in Imphal:We still have not had access to PM's university degree.Nobody actually knows whether the Prime Minister went to a university or not. There is an RTI filed in Delhi asking for PM's university degree but it has not been responded to. pic.twitter.com/mGzwmahmxR — ANI (@ANI) March 20, 2019 // <![CDATA[ <script> // ]]> Rahul is alleging as Aam Admi Party chief and Delhi chief minister Arvind kejriwal, despite the fact that both, the Delhi University and the BJP, have clarified that the prime minister joined university through correspondence course and got degree from the university. Modi's blog evoked several strong reactions, especially from the Congress. "In the summer of 2014, the people voted decisively for: Honesty over dynasty. Development over decay. Security over stagnation. Opportunities over obstacles. Vikas over vote-bank politics... The mandate of 2014 was epoch-making also because it was for the first time in the history of India that a non-dynastic party was blessed with a complete majority." Modi opened his blog with these lines. The prime minister also made a point by point rebuttal to his political rivals and critics charge that there was an unrelenting attack on institutions under his regime. In the blog, Modi details how it was Congress party and it's "first family" which undermined and targeted institutions — constitutional, statutory and otherwise. To the charge that his regime is the one throttling freedom of speech and intolerant to dissent, Modi said it was actually the Congress which believed in curbing freedom of expression. "Dynastic parties have never been comfortable with a free and vibrant press. No wonder, the very first Constitutional Amendment brought in by the Congress government sought to curtail free speech. The recent UPA years saw the bringing of a law that could land you in prison for posting anything 'offensive'. A tweet against the son of a powerful UPA minister could land innocent citizens in jail. Just a few days ago, the nation watched with horror when a few youngsters were arrested for expressing their true feelings at a programme in Karnataka, where the Congress is sharing power." The prime minister referred to the incident at Rahul's rally in Karnataka where a few youngsters, who were allegedly Modi supporters, were taken into custody for chanting pro-Modi slogans. Modi listed out institutions press, judiciary, armed forces, governmental institutions, constitutional and investigative bodies to narrate how Congress party treated them. Emergency imposed by Indira Gandhi in 1975 was highlighted in detail. "When the sun set on the evening of 25th June 1975, it took with it the democratic ethos of India. A hurried radio address by the then Prime Minister showed the extent to which the Congress can go to safeguard the interests of one dynasty. The Emergency made the nation a prison overnight. Even to express was to commit sin. The 42nd Amendment put curbs on the courts, covering the Parliament and more. It took a groundswell of public opinion to end the Emergency but the anti-constitutional mindset of those who imposed it remained. The Congress has imposed Article 356 almost a hundred times, with Mrs. Indira Gandhi herself doing so about fifty times. If they did not like a state government or leader the government was dismissed. Congress’ contempt for the courts is anyway legendary. It was Mrs. Indira Gandhi who called for a “committed judiciary”, which seeks to make the courts more loyal to a family than to the Constitution" Modi has given talking points to his party workers and supporters to counter charges alleged by the Congress and other parties in the run up to Lok Sabha election. Firstpost is now on WhatsApp. For the latest analysis, commentary and news updates, sign up for our WhatsApp services. Just go to Firstpost.com/Whatsapp and hit the Subscribe button. 
Model Code of Conduct Tracker: TMC lodges complaint against BJP for publishing Narendra Modi's photo on railway tickets|  Model Code of Conduct Tracker: A Trinamool Congress (TMC) delegation comprising Derek O'Brien, Sukhendu Sekhar Ray, and Chandan Mitra approached the Election Commission of India (ECI) on Tuesday to lodge a complaint against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) claiming that Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s photo was being published on railway tickets as part of a government scheme, which, the party said, was in violation of the MCC. Congress leader Shashi Tharoor on Wednesday wrote to the chief electoral officer (CEO) or Kerala in order to "file a complaint in relation to the malicious attempt by BJP and the Sabarimala Karma Samithi to vitiate free and fair polls in Thiruvananthapuram Lok Sabha constituency." He said that they did so "by publicising materials in a bid to appeal to religious sentiments of voters." The Delhi BJP on Tuesday filed a complaint with the Chief Electoral Office in the city, seeking action against the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) for allegedly "indulging in violent acts" and violating the Model Code of Conduct (MCC). The BJP claimed AAP leaders, including Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, had burned copies of its 2014 manifesto on 13 March. Meanwhile, the Election Commission of India issued a showcause notice to BJP leader and Union minister Babul Supriyo for violating the MCC. The notice is related to a campaign song, which Supriyo allegedly promoted on electronic media and social media sites without a media certification from the EC. The Trinamool Congress had also registered a complaint against the song with the EC. In Kerala, the BJP complained to the Chief Electoral Officer in Thiruvananthapuram, claiming that the posters put up by the Congress related to MP Shashi Tharoor's book Why Am I A Hindu violated the Model Code of Conduct (MCC). Tharoor, however, claimed they were not election posters. Gujarat Chief Electoral Officer S Murali Krishna has ordered an inquiry after the Congress, on Monday, filed a complaint alleging that the BJP had violated the MCC by holding a meeting of the party's state parliamentary board at Chief Minister Vijay Rupani's official residence. The Congress pointed out that the chief minister's official residence in Gandhinagar is a government property, and no political activity is permitted from a government premises when the poll code is in force. meanwhile, the Deputy Commissioner of Baramulla (Jammu and Kashmir) on Monday rescinded transfers ordered by the district’s assistant commissioner in violation of the model code of conduct, after the state government questioned the reshuffle affected despite standing directions. On the other hand, after last week's takedown notification to Facebook, the EC called all social media platforms including Google, Twitter, Whatsapp, ShareChat and Tiktok for a meet to discuss over their violative social media content, ad policy and response time over complaints on Tuesday. The meet comes in wake of confusion over EC’s first takedown notice to Facebook regarding a Model Code of Conduct (MCC) violation on 13 March. A delegation led by Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) Election Commission Coordination Committee convenor G Niranjan complained to the CEO on MCC violation by Chief Minister K Chandrashekar Rao for inviting Congress leader and former home minister Sabitha Indra Reddy and her sons to his camp office on 13 March for deliberations and reportedly influencing them to joins TRS. BJD accused BJP of violating the Model Code of Conduct by allegedly shifting the Railway Electrification Board unit from Bhubaneswar to Bengaluru on 13 March after the announcement of the Lok Sabha election dates. Whereas, in order to put a check on the poll irregularities and other malfunctions ahead and during the Lok Sabha elections, a 24x7 control room was opened at the office of the Chief Electoral Officer in Bhubaneswar on Friday. BJP’s Delhi unit wrote to the Election Commission to appoint special observers in mosques to prevent religion from influencing electoral outcomes. The BJP has squarely blamed the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) for polarising the voters on religious and caste lines and has stated that it is Arvind Kejriwal who has been “delivering many inflammatory and baseless statements to polarise votes, especially in Muslim dominant areas.” The Ranchi district administration on Monday filed a case of Model Code of Conduct (MCC) violation against Union minister Jayant Sinha on a complaint by the Jharkhand Mukti Morcha. In its complaint to Jharkhand Chief Electoral Officer L Khiangte, the party claimed that Sinha had used the convocation ceremony at IIM-Ranchi to publicise the BJP government's achievements, violating the poll code. Meanwhile, the BJP on Monday filed a complaint against Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera for allegedly violating the MCC. In its complaint, the party claimed that Khera, during a news channel's event, had stated that 'Modi stands for Masood Azhar, Osama, Dawood and ISI.' The Congress registered its first Model Code of Conduct violation complaint with the Election Commission of India (ECI) on Thursday. In Maharashtra, the party gave a written complaint to the chief electoral officer against government advertisements still being displayed outside state transport buses, bus stops and petrol pumps. Show cause notices were issued to BJP's Chandigarh chief Sanjay Tandon, four BJP councillors, two nominated councillors and three officials of the Municipal Corporation Chandigarh on Wednesday for violating the model code of conduct. The notice asked the officials to reply within 24 hours as to why disciplinary action may not be taken against them. In Arunachal Pradesh, the Nirjuli police under the supervision of Capital Complex Superintendent of Police Tumme Amo on Tuesday night seized Rs 15.6 lakh from undisclosed people for violation of the model code of conduct. Bahujan Samaj Party's (BSP) Pratapgarh Lok Sabha constituency in-charge Ashok Tripathi was among 68 booked for poll code violation on Wednesday. The ECI on Wednesday issued a notice to BJP's Jaipur MP Ramcharan Bohra and Rajasthan Congress' General Secretary Sunil Sharma for putting up posters in different locations across Jaipur depicting various operations done by the Indian Armed forces along with their own photos. It also asked both the politicians to file a reply within three days. The Commission on Wednesday issued a show-cause notice to Delhi BJP MLA Om Prakash Sharma for putting up two posters featuring him, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and IAF Wing Commander Abhinandan Varthaman on Facebook. The Commission asked him to take down the post and give a reply by Thursday. The Election Commission has asked all political parties to refrain from making reference to the armed forces during their campaign. Meanwhile, on Tuesday, hoardings and banners containing the photographs of Prime Minister Narendra Modi were removed from petrol pumps in New Delhi on Tuesday following the enforcement of the Model Code of Conduct for Lok Sabha elections. ECI on 10 March, 2019 announced the dates of the seven-phase upcoming Lok Sabha election scheduled to begin on 11 April. The results will be announced on 23 May. The last polling date is 19 May. With the announcement of the schedule, the Model Code of Conduct kicked in the very same day. The ECI referred to its December 2013 letter in which it had "called upon all political parties to advise their candidates and leaders to desist from displaying photographs of defence personnel or photographs functions involving defence personnel in advertisements". More than 820 million citizens will cast their votes across India this year. The number of eligible voters has gone up by more than five times since the first General Election. Voter turnout has also increased from 46 percent in 1951-52 to 66 percent in 2014. In the last election held in 2014, there were roughly 815 million, but just 550 million exercised their right to vote. Lok Sabha Election 2019 will see over 1.5 crore first-time voters. These voters in the age group of 18-19 years constitute 1.66 percent of the total electorate. Two-thirds of Indians are under 35 years of age. Firstpost is now on WhatsApp. For the latest analysis, commentary and news updates, sign up for our WhatsApp services. Just go to Firstpost.com/Whatsapp and hit the Subscribe button. 
Insulting institutions is the Congress way, says Narendra Modi in blog, claims Opposition's desire for power cost nation greatly| New Delhi: Prime Minister Narendra Modi urged people on Wednesday to think wisely before casting their vote and attacked the Congress, alleging that the grand old party believed in insulting institutions, including Parliament, judiciary, media and the armed forces, when it was in power. "As you go to vote — remember the past and how one family's desire for power cost the nation so greatly. If they could do it then, they can surely do it now," he wrote on his blog. He said eternal vigilance remains the price of liberty. "Think wisely: From the press to parliament. From soldiers to free speech. From the constitution to the courts. Institutional insult is the Congress way." "Everyone is wrong, only the Congress is correct," he said, taking a dig at the principal Opposition party. He said his government has changed things as it puts institutions above everything else. "India has seen that whenever dynastic politics has been powerful, institutions have taken a severe beating."  He said the present Lok Sabha had a "phenomenal 85 percent" productivity. "The nation knows the numerical dynamics of both houses. It is clear that when a non-dynasty party [has a] higher number, its tendency to work more is visible," he said and asked which were the "forces disrupting the House and why." Referring to freedom of expression, he alleged dynastic parties have never been comfortable with a free and vibrant press. "No wonder, the very first constitutional amendment brought in by the Congress government sought to curtail free speech. Speaking truth to power, which is the hallmark of a free press was seen as vulgar and indecent," Modi wrote. He pointed out that the UPA years saw the bringing of a law that could land you in prison for posting anything “offensive.” "A tweet against the son of a powerful UPA minister could land innocent citizens in jail. Just a few days ago, the nation watched with horror when a few youngsters were arrested for expressing their true feelings at a programme in Karnataka, where the Congress is sharing power," he said. Modi said he wants to tell the Congress that "no amount of intimidation" will change the ground realities. "Curbing freedom of expression will not change people's poor impression of the party." Referring to Emergency, he said it was imposed to "safeguard" the interests of a "dynasty". "The Congress has imposed Article 356 almost a hundred times, with Indira Gandhi herself doing so about fifty times. If they did not like a state government or leader the government was dismissed," he wrote. Referring to the judiciary, he alleged that Congress' contempt for courts "is anyway legendary." "It was Mrs. Indira Gandhi who called for a 'committed judiciary', which seeks to make the courts more loyal to a family than to the Constitution," he claimed. This pursuit of a “committed judiciary”, Modi said, made Congress overlook several respected judges while appointing the chief justice of India. "Congress' modus operandi is simple- reject, discredit and threaten. If a judicial verdict goes against them, they reject it, then they discredit the judge and thereafter, talk about bringing impeachment motions against the judge," he said apparently referring to moves to impeach then CJI Dipak Misra. He said from CAG to the erstwhile Planning Commission, Congress never respected institutions. "In a telling comment, former prime minister Rajiv Gandhi called the Planning Commission led by Dr. Manmohan Singh, 'a bunch of jokers'," he said. The CBI, he alleged, became the Congress Bureau of Investigation and was used time and again on political parties just before crucial parliamentary votes. "Tensions were deliberately created in organisations such as IB and RAW. A policy decision taken by no less than the Union Cabinet was torn into pieces by someone who was not a member of any ministry and that too, in a press conference," he wrote. He was referring to Rahul Gandhi tearing a copy of an ordinance which sought to overturn a Supreme Court ruling on immediate disqualification of a lawmaker upon conviction. "The NAC was created as a body parallel to the Prime Minister's Office. And then, Congress talks about institutions?" he asked. Referring to defence preparedness, he alleged that Congress has always seen the defence sector as a source of income which is why the armed forces never got the respect from the Congress that they deserved. "After 1947, every Congress government has seen multiple defence scams. They began with jeeps and then moved to guns, submarines and helicopters. Every middleman is linked to one family." "When a top Congress leader calls the Army chief a 'gunda' (thug) and is subsequently promoted in the party rank and file, it shows their scant regard for the forces," he wrote. Continuing his attack, he said, "When our forces strike at terrorist elements, Congress leaders accuse the political leadership of doing 'Khoon Ki Dalali.' When our air warriors strike at terrorists, Congress questions that too." In an opaque reference to Congress chief Rahul Gandhi's brother-in-law Robert Vadra's appearance before investigating agencies, he said, "The sense of entitlement can be seen in their conduct towards routine legal processes. At present, their top leadership is on bail vis-a-vis a major scam. When the authorities seek to question them on their dealings, they do not even bother to reply." He also accused the Congress of lacking "internal democracy", saying if a leader dares to dream to head that party, he or she is shunted out. Firstpost is now on WhatsApp. For the latest analysis, commentary and news updates, sign up for our WhatsApp services. Just go to Firstpost.com/Whatsapp and hit the Subscribe button. 
Priyanka Gandhi reacts to Narendra Modi's blog, says BJP has 'systematically attacked every institution' in last five years| Mirzapur: Reacting strongly to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s tweet on dynasty politics, Congress General Secretary for eastern Uttar Pradesh Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Wednesday said that the BJP has systematically attacked every institution in last five years.  "BJP has systematically attacked every institution in last five years. Including institution of which you are a part of (media). The Prime Minister should stop thinking that people are fools and understand that they see through all this,” she said speaking to reporters. “Satta jiske sar par chad jati hai, unko galatfaimiyan ho jati hai. (People get disillusioned when a political dispensation tries to influence them)," she added. “Firstly they that it is easy to mislead the people, and secondly whoever speaks against them are afraid of them. We are not afraid of them no matter how much they exploit us. We will keep fighting against them,” she said. Earlier in the day, Narendra Modi in his blog wrote, "The biggest casualty of the same (dynastic politics) are institutions. From the press to Parliament, from soldiers to free speech, from the Constitution to the courts, nothing is spared." Priyanka is on a three-day long ‘Ganga Yatra’ from Prayagraj to Varanasi. Priyanka’s tour will focus on ‘Sanchi Baat Priyanka ke Saath’ in which she will talk to people during her 140 kilometres long travel on a steamer boat to Assi Ghat in Varanasi. The Lok Sabha elections have been scheduled to start from 11 April and will go on till 19 May in seven phases. The polls in Uttar Pradesh will be held in all seven phases. The counting of votes will take place on 23 May. Firstpost is now on WhatsApp. For the latest analysis, commentary and news updates, sign up for our WhatsApp services. Just go to Firstpost.com/Whatsapp and hit the Subscribe button. 
Setback to Congress-NCP combine ahead of LS polls: Former Maharashtra MP Ranjitsinh Mohite Patil joins BJP| Mumbai: In a setback to the Sharad Pawar-led NCP in Maharashtra, former party MP Ranjitsinh Mohite Patil joined the BJP on Wednesday. Ranjitsinh, son of senior Nationalist Congress Party leader Vijaysinh Mohite Patil, joined the BJP in presence of CM Devendra Fadnavis.  Vijaysinh Mohite Patil is NCP's Lok Sabha member from Madha constituency and a former deputy CM of Maharashtra. Ranjitsinh, who was a Rajya Sabha member of the NCP, said he was disappointed with top NCP leadership. This is the latest setback to the Congress-NCP combine, after Sujay Vikhe Patil, the son of Maharashtra Leader of Opposition Radhakrishna Vikhe Patil joined the BJP recently. There was also speculation that Radhakrishna Vikhe Patil tendered his resignation as Leader of Opposition to Congress president Rahul Gandhi on moral grounds. Firstpost is now on WhatsApp. For the latest analysis, commentary and news updates, sign up for our WhatsApp services. Just go to Firstpost.com/Whatsapp and hit the Subscribe button. 
Lok Sabha Election 2019, Haryana profile: Rohtak, Gurgaon, Sirsa among key seats, Jat votes may prove deciding factor| Haryana has 10 parliamentary constituencies and 90 Assembly constituencies. Like Himachal Pradesh, the state is currently a mainstay of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The saffron party currently holds seven out of 10 constituencies. In the last decade, the state has switched loyalties from Congress to BJP. In 2004 and 2009 General Elections, the Congress had won all but one seats. However, the tides turned for BJP in 2014, when riding on the Modi-wave, the BJP was able to win seven seats. Congress has only one constituency to its credit. Deepender Singh Hooda, Congress leader and son of former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda, succeeded in wooing the Jat votes and won the only seat for the grand old party in 2014. Jats, who form around 29 percent of Haryana’s population, are important to political parties. In 2014, just before the Lok Sabha elections, the UPA government had granted OBC status to Jats. However, the order was set aside by the Supreme Court. A week later, Prime Minister Narendra Modi met with Jat leaders and promised them that the government would try to find a solution. A year later, Haryana state witnessed one of its worst agitations by the Jat community in 2016. Amid violence and arson, 10 people died. This election, too, parties will have to woo Jats to vote in their favour. Yet another agitation that rocked the state was when Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim was pronounced guilty of rape by a special Panchkula court in August 2017. While he was taken into custody, Rahim’s followers took violence to the streets, killing 31 and injuring around 300 more. In the 2014 elections, Rahim had openly supported BJP. However, with his fall, his followers will have to be wooed by parties in the fray. In Haryana, the Congress is banking on Bhupinder Singh Hooda’s Jat roots as well as an alliance with other factional parties to win back the states. Meanwhile, the Aam Aadmi Party has thrown its hat in the ring by seeking an alliance with the Congress and the newly-formed Jannayak Janata Party (JJP). The JJP was formed after the Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) split. Meanwhile, the Bahujan Samaj Party has announced that it will contest on eight seats and the partner Loktantra Suraksha Party will contest from two. 1. Ambala Lok Sabha Constituency  Constituency number: 1 Total electors: 16,85,381 (2014 estimates) Female electors: 7,80,391 Male electors: 9,04,990 Reserved: Yes. For Scheduled Castes Delimited: Yes. In 2008, Panchkula and Yamunanagar Assembly segments replaced the Naggal and Chhachhrauli segments in this constituency. Yamunanagar was earlier in the Kurukshetra constituency. Assembly Constituencies: Kalka, Panchkula, Naraingarh, Ambala Cantt., Ambala City, Mulana (SC), Sadhaura (SC), Jagadhri, Yamunanagar Results in last four Lok Sabha elections: BJP candidate Rattan Lal Kataria won a majority in the year 1999. Congress candidate Kumari Selja succeeded Kataria in 2004 and was re-elected in 2009. In 2014, however, BJP returned to power when Kataria won a majority. Demographics: There are 11,28,350 people living in the Ambala district. It has an almost equal number of urban and rural population, according to the 2011 Census data. The Scheduled Caste population forms 26.3 percent of the population. The ruling BJP is likely to field a fresh face this election. 2. Bhiwani-Mahendragarh Lok Sabha Constituency  Constituency number: 8 Total electors: 14,49,623 (2014 estimates) Female electors: 6,73,662 Male electors: 7,75,961 Reserved: No Delimited: Yes. In 2008 parts of the Bhiwani and Mahendragarh constituencies were merged to form this new constituency. Six segments were from Bhiwani and three from Mahendragarh. Gurgaon, which was a part of Mahendragarh, became a separate constituency. Assembly Constituencies:Loharu, Badhra, Dadri, Bhiwani, Tosham, Ateli, Mahendragarh, Narnaul, Nangal Choudhary Results in last four Lok Sabha elections: In 2009, the first Lok Sabha election in the constituency was won by Shruti Choudhry from the Congress. In 2014, BJP candidate Dharambir Singh was elected as an MP. Demographics: While the Bhiwani district has a population of 16,34,445, Mahendragarh has 9,22,088 people living in the area, according to data from the 2011 census. The population is primarily rural in data as per the data. Sitting MP Dharambir Singh, who has taken up the issues of farmers in the area and rallied for an increase in Minimum Support Price, will contest again in 2019. 3. Faridabad Lok Sabha Constituency  Constituency number: 10 Total electors: 17,36,322 (2014 estimates)  Female electors: 7,69,580 Male electors: 9,66,742 Reserved: No Delimited: Yes. In 2008, the Mewla Maharajpur, Hassanpur, Ferozepur Jhirka, Nuh and Taoru Assembly constituencies were removed from this constituency. Four new were added. Assembly Constituencies: Hathin, Hodal (SC), Palwal, Prithla, Faridabad NIT, Badkhal, Ballabhgarh, Faridabad, Tigaon Results in last four Lok Sabha elections: BJP candidate Ram Chander Bainda won the election in 1999. He was succeeded by Avtar Singh Bhadana from Congress. Bhadana repeated his feat again in 2009. However, in 2014 BJP candidate Krishan Pal won the election. Demographics: Part of the National Capital Region, Faridabad has a population of 18,09,733. It has a Hindu majority as 89 percent of the population practices the religion. Faridabad has been recognised as a smart city. Sitting MP Krishan Pal, who wishes to run again, faces competition from former MP Avtar Singh Bhadana. A Congress politician, Bhadana had defected to the BJP in 2014. He has, however, returned to the grand old party and will run from Faridabad. 4. Gurgaon Lok Sabha Constituency  Constituency number: 9 Total electors: 18,30,801 (2014 estimates) Female electors: 8,55,870 Male electors: 9,74,931 Reserved: No Delimited:  Yes. Gurgaon was an Assembly constituency of the erstwhile Mahendragarh constituency. In 2008, it was carved out as a separate constituency by bringing together segments from Mahendragarh. Ferozepur Jhirka and Nuh from the old Faridabad constituency, too, were added. Assembly Constituencies:  Bawal (SC), Rewari, Pataudi (SC), Badshahpur, Gurgaon, Sohna, Nuh, Ferozepur Jhirka, Punahana Results in last four Lok Sabha elections: In 2009, Rao Inderjit Singh from the Congress won the election. He then switched to BJP and won the election in 2014. Demographics: Gurgaon, too, is a part of the National Capital Region. While Gurgaon is fast growing as an Information Technology hub, the constituency is also home to Mewat, one of Haryana’s poorest areas. Rao Inderjit Singh, who is the sitting MP and son of former chief minister Birendra Singh, stands a good chance of winning this election. He helped set up a Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority and his demand for an AIIMS in Rewari was recently accepted by the centre. 5. Hisar Lok Sabha Constituency  Constituency number: 4 Total electors: 15,10,093 (2014 estimates) Female electors: 6,89,441 Male electors: 8,20,652 Reserved: No Delimited: Yes. In 2008, six Assembly constituencies were removed and five new were added to form the Hisar constituency. Kalayat, Narwana, Rajond, Jind and Ghirai were removed. Assembly Constituencies: Uchana kalan, Adampur, Uklana (SC), Narnaund, Hansi, Barwala, Hisar, Nalwa, Bawani Khera (SC) Results in last four Lok Sabha elections: In 1999, Surendra Singh Barwana from the INLD won the election from this constituency. Congress candidate Jai Prakash won a majority in 2009 elections. He was succeeded by Bhajan Lal, the founder of the Haryana Janhit Congress (Bhajan Lal) in 2009. In the next election, however, INLD candidate Dushyant Chautala won a majority. Demographics: As per the 2011 Census, 17,43,931 people live in Hisar, which has a majority of rural population. Dubbed the steel city of Haryana, it is also the Jat heartland in the state. It is one of the few seats with the INLD. Meanwhile, BJP is planning to field bureaucrat Brijendra Singh from here. Singh is the son of Union steel minister Chaudhury Birendra Singh. 6. Karnal Lok Sabha Constituency  Constituency number: 5 Total electors: 16,79,370 (2014 estimates) Female electors: 7,69,722 Male electors: 9,09,648 Reserved: No Delimited: Yes. In 2008, the Jundla and Nautha Assembly constituencies were removed from the Karnal constituency limits. Moreover, the Panipat Assembly constituency was divided into two—rural and urban. Assembly Constituencies: Nilokheri (SC), Indri, Karnal, Gharaunda, Assandh, Panipat Rural, Panipat City, Israna (SC), Samalkha (SC) Results in last four Lok Sabha elections: In 1999 elections, ID Swamy from BJP was elected MP. He was succeeded by Arvind Kumar Sharma from Congress who held the fort for two terms (2004 and 2009). In 2014, BJP snatched the seat back when Ashwini Kumar won the election. Demographics: Karnal has a population of 15,05,324, of which 70 percent is rural. Sitting MP and media baron Ashwini Kumar won the seat in 2014 but owing to his failing health was not very active. He has now sought a ticket for his wife. However, BJP is mulling pitching Union minister Maneka Gandhi from Karnal. 7. Kurukshetra Lok Sabha Constituency  Constituency number: 2 Total electors:  14,93,283 (2014 estimates) Female electors: 6,89,177 Male electors: 8,04,106 Reserved: No Delimited: Yes. In 2008, the Yamunanagar was added to Ambala constituency and Pai segment was dissolved. Ladwa and Kalayat segments were added. Assembly Constituencies: Radaur, Ladwa, Shahbad (SC), Thanesar, Pehowa, Guhla (SC), Kalayat, Kaithal, Pundri Results in last four Lok Sabha elections: INLD candidate Kailasho Devi won the election in the year 1999. She was succeeded by Naveen Jindal, who contested with a Congress ticket, in 2004. He won again in 2009. However, in 2014 BJP candidate Rajkumar Saini defeated Jindal by a margin of over 1.29 lakh votes. Demographics: Known as the Rice Bowl of Haryana, Kurukshetra recorded a population of 9,64,655. Formerly a BJP bastion, the saffron party will need a new face this election as sitting MP Rajkumar Saini launched his own party. Saini’s Loktantra Suraksha Party has tied up with BSP for the 2019 general elections.  8. Rohtak Lok Sabha Constituency  Constituency number: 7  Total electors:  15,41,778 (2014 estimates) Female electors: 7,09,440 Male electors: 8,32,338 Reserved:  No Delimited: Yes. In 2008, the Hassangarh and Salhawas segments were removed and Bahadurgarh and Kosli were added to the Kurukshetra constituency. Assembly Constituencies: Meham, Garhi Sampla-Kiloi, Rohtak, Kalanaur (SC), Bahadurgarh, Badli, Jhajjar (SC), Beri, Kosli Results in last four Lok Sabha elections: INLD candidate Inder Singh won the election in 1999. He was succeeded by Congress leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda. Since 2009, Bhupinder’s son Deepender has been MP from the constituency. Demographics: Rohtak district, which is the Jatt heartland, is home to 10,61,204 people, of which 42.04 per cent live in urban areas. Rohtak is the only district to have an Indian Institue of Technology, an Indian Institute of Management and an All India Institute of Medical Sciences. This constituency has been held by former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda and son Deepender since 2004. It is the only constituency held by Congress in the state. However, owing to the Jat agitations, corruption cases against Bhupinder and a rising anti-incumbency sentiment, Congress may face trouble. 9. Sirsa Lok Sabha Constituency  Constituency number: 3 Total electors: 16,58,574 (2014 estimates) Female electors: 7,73,757 Male electors: 8,84,817 Reserved: Yes. For Scheduled Castes Delimited: Yes. In 2008, the Darba Kalan, Bhattu Kalan and Rori segments were removed from this constituency. Narwana, Kalawali and Rania segments were newly added. Assembly Constituencies: Narwana (SC), Tohana, Fatehabad, Ratia (SC), Kalawali (SC), Dabwali, Rania, Sirsa, Ellenabad Results in last four Lok Sabha elections: INLD candidate Sushil Kumar Indola won the election in 1999. He was succeeded by congress candidate Atma Singh Gill in 2004. In 2009, Congress candidate Ashok Tanwar won the seat. INLD made a comeback in 2014 when Charanjit Sigh Rori was elected MP. Demographics: The district of Sirsa has a population of 12,95,189, according to data from Census 2011. It has a primarily rural population as only 24.65 percent live in urban areas. The BJP has never won a Lok Sabha seat from this constituency. Home to the Dera Sacha Sauda, uncertainty shrouds the constituency this election season with the fall of Dera leader Ram Rahim Singh as the split in INLD. Hisar MP Dushyant Chautala has split from the INLD and floated his own party the Jannnayak Janata Party. 10. Sonipat Lok Sabha Constituency  Constituency number: 6 Total electors: 14,09,786 (2014 estimates) Female electors: 6,36,818 Male electors: 772,968 Reserved: No Delimited: Yes. In 2008, the Bahadurgarh, Kailana and Rohat assembly segments were replaced by Ganaur, Kharkhauda and Jind segments. Bahadurgarh was added to Kurukshetra. Assembly Constituencies: Ganaur, Rai, Kharkhauda (SC), Sonipat, Gohana, Baroda, Julana, Safidon, Jind Results in last four Lok Sabha elections: In 1999, BJP candidate Kishan Singh Sangwan won the election. He repeated his feat in 2004. Congress took over the seat in 2009 when candidate Jitendra Singh won. However, BJP reclaimed the seat in 2014 when Ramesh Chadar was elected MP. Demographics: There are 14,50,001 people living in Sonipat, according to the 2011 census. Of this, 31.27 percent lives in urban setups. The Hindu majority constituency falls under the National Capital Region and has seen development projects take off in the past few years. Having a sizeable Jat population, the constituency may sway in favour of Congress as former chief minister Bhupinder Hooda holds influence over Jatts. Moreover, seven of its nine assembly segments are held by opposition parties. Firstpost is now on WhatsApp. For the latest analysis, commentary and news updates, sign up for our WhatsApp services. Just go to Firstpost.com/Whatsapp and hit the Subscribe button. 
BJP wins floor test in Goa Assembly: Pramod Sawant secure in CM's seat with support of 20 MLAs; 15 oppose move| New Chief Minister of Goa Pramod Sawant on Wednesday won the confidence motion he had moved in the Goa Assembly with the support of 20 MLAs, thus ensuring a victory for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the crucial floor test. The floor test was necessitated after Sawant took oath as the new chief minister of the state early on Tuesday. His predecessor Manohar Parrikar's death on Sunday evening had left the chief minister's seat vacant, triggering a fresh round of uncertainty over who would assume office next. TV channels had reported that the BJP has moved its lawmakers to a five-star hotel to secure its numbers ahead of the trust vote.  Fifteen of the 35 MLAs in the Goa Assembly voted against Sawant in the floor test. Fourteen of them belonged to the Congress, which had earlier accused Governor Mridula Sinha of favouritism towards the BJP. "We strongly condemn the undemocratic action of Goa governor Mridula Sinha for not allowing our single largest party to form the government and allowing the BJP to carry on horse trading despite not having sufficient numbers to form the government," Sunil Kawthankar of the Goa Congress had told ANI. Wednesday's proceedings, in a special session of the Goa Assembly that Sinha had convened, were preceded by a Condolence Motion moved to remember not Parrikar, but also one-time deputy chief minister Francis D'Souza and former deputy speaker Vishnu Wagh, who also passed away recently. Several sitting MLAs spoke about the three leaders as new Speaker Michael Lobo urged them all to keep their speeches short. Former Goa chief minister Churchill Alemao, Goa Forward Party leader Vijai Sardesai, BJP MLA Manohar Ajgaonkar, Dabolim MLA Mauvin Godinho and Independent Priol MLA Govind Gaude were among the leaders who fondly remembered the role Parrikar played in making Goa inclusive and modern. Significantly, all 35 MLAs of the Goa Assembly were present in the House for the trust vote, including Pandurang Madkaikar who had suffered a brain stroke in 2018. Notably, Sawant had been maintaining that he was confident of a victory in the floor test. Late on Tuesday, 11 ministers took oath along with Sawant to complete the new power structure in Goa. They include Sudin Dhavlikar, Vijai Sardesai, Manohar Azgaonkar, Rohan Khaunte, Govind Gaude, Vinod Palienkar, Jayesh Salgaonkar, Mauvin Godinho, Vishwajit Rane, Milind Naik and Nilesh Cabral. Of them, Vijay Sardesai of the Goa Forward Party and Sudin Dhavalikar of the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party will be the new deputy chief ministers of the state. When Parrikar passing away on Sunday, the BJP was compelled to swing into action. The impasse over government formation, which included dealing with stubborn allies demanding their pound of flesh, is now resolved with the BJP coalition's victory in the Goa Assembly. With inputs from agencies Firstpost is now on WhatsApp. For the latest analysis, commentary and news updates, sign up for our WhatsApp services. Just go to Firstpost.com/Whatsapp and hit the Subscribe button. 
